<docbook><section><title>Atombasedupstream</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Atom based upstream support</bridgehead>
<para>ODSWiki now supports Atom based upstreaming.
 Any cluster can be configured to escalate any changes to one or several remoted ODSWiki instances.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>Upstreaming can be configured in Cluster Settings page in Upstreams tab.</para>
<para>The form for adding or changing existing upstream contains following fields:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> name </entry><entry> name of the upstream - list of upstreams actually a list of such names </entry></row>
<row><entry> URL    </entry><entry> URL of remote ODSWiki Atom endpoint. Usually it is something like =http://{server}[:port]/dataspace/{ownername}/wiki/{clustername}/atom-pub= </entry></row>
<row><entry> user  </entry><entry> name of user who has write permissions on the remote ODSWiki instance </entry></row>
<row><entry> password </entry><entry> password of <emphasis>user</emphasis> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Simple example:</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Note: At myopenlink.net:8890/ods : <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>There is an user test1 with pwd 1 registered.
</listitem>
<listitem>User test1 is an owner of a test1Wiki wiki instance.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Install ODS and Wiki packages.
</listitem>
<listitem>Login at <ulink url="http://host:port/ods">http://host:port/ods</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Go to Wiki tab from the ODS main navigation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Create New&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form click the &quot;Create and Launch application&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result is shown the <ulink url="WelcomeVisitors">WelcomeVisitors</ulink> wiki home page.
 From the right vertical navigation click the &quot;Cluster Settings&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Upstreams&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter in the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;name&quot;: My upstream </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;URL&quot;: <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;user&quot;: test1 </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;password&quot;: 1 </listitem>
<listitem>Check the check-box for &quot;Make full cluster upstream first&quot;.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Add/Update Upstream&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the &quot;Go&quot; field enter <ulink url="TestStream">TestStream</ulink> and click enter.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter for the article&#39;s body: simple text.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Save and release lock&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>After a while, go to <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Index&quot; link from the bottom of the page.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result among the article from this instance, should be shown also the <ulink url="TestStream">TestStream</ulink> article.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>