<docbook><section><title>OdsAddressbook</title><title>Addressbook</title>Addressbook
<para>ODS-Addressbook offers features to add, manage, and organize contacts for every ODS user.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Create/Update/Delete Contact.
</listitem>
<listitem>Organize information in four main tabs: Personal, Contact, Home and Business </listitem>
<listitem>Tag Contacts.
 One or more contacts can be selected in order to add (n) tags to them.
An additional option is to add tags from the user&#39;s tags list, so-called &quot;My Tags&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Import Contacts: User can import contacts from: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The following file types, found in the local file system or <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>vCard </listitem>
<listitem>FOAF </listitem>
<listitem>CSV (the user will be given the opportunity to map fields from the file to Addressbook properties) </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>LDAP Servers: depends on what servers the user has defined at his User Profile Page-&gt;Tab &quot;LDAP Servers&quot; </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Export contact(s) to vCard, FOAF, or CSV files </listitem>
<listitem>Share contact(s) with other users </listitem>
<listitem>View contact(s) others have shared with the user </listitem>
<listitem>Simple/Advanced Search <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Advanced search adds options to: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>search among own and/or shared contact(s) </listitem>
<listitem>set max rows </listitem>
<listitem>order by Name, Link, or Folder </listitem>
<listitem>Set Direction of the search results: Desc or Asc </listitem>
<listitem>Show a Tag Cloud within search results </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>RSS, Atom, and RDF support </listitem>
<listitem>SIOC(RDF/XML), SIOC(N3/Turtle) support </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink> support</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSAddressBookProgrammersGuideWebServices">Services</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookSyncML">Synchronize my contacts to DAV location using SyncML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookSubscr">Subscribe to URL accessible Addressbook files?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookPublish">Publish My Contacts?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookShare">Share My Contacts?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookExport">Export My Contacts?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllersAddressbook">Manage my AddressBook data via REST using authentication based on OAuth, sessions, or password hash?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookCRUDEndpoint">Manipulate my AddressBook data via CRUD RESTful using Addressbook CardDAV Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityAddressbook">Use the Addressbook Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleAddressbook">Use the Virtuoso OAuth Test tool to manage my contacts?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWebIDACLInstanceSettingAddressBook">Set Up WebID ACL for ODS Addressbook Dataspace Instance Automatic Inheritance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAddressBookWebIDACL">Use WebID Protocol for enhanced ODS-Addressbook Access Control Lists (ACLs)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAddressBookRef">Use SPARQL to Query My Contacts using the SIOC Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRefExampleAddressBook">Use SPARQL to Query My Contacts using the FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRefExampleAddressbook">Use SPARQL to Query My Contacts using the Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRefExampleAddressBook">Use SPARQL to Query My Contacts using the SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRefExampleAddressBook">Use SPARQL to Query My Contacts using the Annotea Ontology</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookFAQ">Addressbook FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookGettingStarted">Getting Started with ODS-Addressbook</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Addressbook Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsPublAddressbook">Addressbook Publication Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsSubscrAddressbook">Addressbook Subscription Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsAddressbookOAuthD">Addressbook OAuth Authentication Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleAddressbook">Addressbook OAuth REST API Tutorial with the Virtuoso OAuth Testing Tool</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbookProgrammersGuide">Addressbook&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryAddressBook">CategoryAddressBook</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsAddressBook">CategoryOdsAddressBook</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>