<docbook><section><title>OdsApplications</title><para> DE3A857A5FFB11DA923AF0924C194AED Cluster Main ---++ <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces Framework &amp; Application <ulink url="SuiteOpenLink">SuiteOpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces is an expanding line of Virtuoso-based applications for establishing and managing one&#39;s presence on the  web and the emerging semantic web.
 The applications include web based social networking, blog, file sharing and more.
 If you have installed Virtuoso, you can start using any of the applications listed on this page by just <ulink url="OdsDownload">downloading a single file</ulink> from our download page and installing this with a single SQL command.
 After this, you can point a web browser at the application and start using it.---+++ODS <ulink url="FrameworkODS">FrameworkODS</ulink> Framework includes an complete data environment, intelligent content integration, user profiles, tags, comprehensive search and more.
 Read more on the <ulink url="OdsFramework">ODS Framework</ulink>   ---+++Application <ulink url="SuiteThis">SuiteThis</ulink> is the core of the ODS application suite.
 This handles user registration, profiles, social networks  and managing each user&#39;s personal collection of applications such as blogs, file sharing  etc.
 The current release of ODS includes the following applications:---+++++ODS Briefcase ODS Briefcase is a web based file sharing platform built on Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> server.
 ODS Briefcase allows fine-grained control of file access rights, search based on content and metadata, alternate views of <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resources organized by metadata and more.
 All the content that can be read and written via ODS Briefcase is also read/write accessible via the <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> protocol, for easy mounting into a Windows or Mac OSX file system.
 Read more on  <ulink url="OdsBriefcase">ODS Briefcase</ulink>   ---+++++ODS <ulink url="WeblogODS">WeblogODS</ulink> Weblog is the complete blogging solution, providing all common feed formats, templating, web services API&#39;s, automatic pinging, post categorization and more.
 ODS Weblog supports multiple authors as well as inclusion of blogs for forming community blogs.
 Read more about the <ulink url="OdsBlog">ODS Blog</ulink> application.</para>
</section></docbook>