<docbook><section><title>OdsBookmarkManager</title><title>ODS Bookmark Manager</title>ODS Bookmark Manager
<para>ODS component that delivers a Bookmark Management platform for constructing, maintaining, and sharing vast collections of Web resource URLs.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Presentation &amp; Content</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Web-based 3-pane user interface for easy navigation of bookmark folder structure </listitem>
<listitem>XBEL-import and -export capability which also includes Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla/Netscape, and Opera bookmarks</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Organize</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SmartFolder">Smart Folders</ulink> -  dynamic query-based view of bookmarks database </listitem>
<listitem>Tag-based viewing and organization </listitem>
<listitem>Bookmarklet for easy bookmark entry creation while browsing</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Search</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Powerful Full-Text search that also includes support for GData, XPath and XQuery </listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL based queries against bookmark database data mapped to SIOC ontology as Virtual RDF data-sets</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Integration</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Supports imports and exports to and from del.icio.us and other bookmarking systems that expose data via Web Services or RSS, Atom, OPML based syndication feeds.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSBookmarkManagerProgrammersGuideWebServices">Services</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkSubscr">Subscribe to URL accessible Bookmark files?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkPublish">Publish Bookmark items to Bookmark format?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkShare">Share My Bookmarks?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkImport">Import My Bookmarks?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkExport">Export My Bookmarks?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllersBookmarks">Manipulate my Weblog data via REST using authentication based on OAuth, sessions, or password hash?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityBookmarks">Use the Bookmark Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBookmarks">Use the Virtuoso OAuth Test tool to manage my bookmarks?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSBookmarksWebIDACL">Use WebID Protocol for enhanced ODS-Bookmark Manager Access Control Lists (ACLs)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefBookmark">Use SPARQL to Query My Bookmarks using the SIOC Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRefExampleBookmarks">Use SPARQL to Query My Bookmarks using the OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRefExampleBookmarks">Use SPARQL to Query My Bookmarks using the SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRefExampleBookmarks">Use SPARQL to Query My Bookmarks using the FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRefExampleBookmarks">Use SPARQL to Query My Bookmarks using the Annotea Ontology</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkManagerFAQ">Bookmark Manager FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkGettingStarted">Getting Started using Bookmark Manager</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Bookmark Manager Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsSubscrBookmark">Bookmark Manager Subscription Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsPublBookmark">Bookmark Manager Publication Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsBookmarkOAuthD">Bookmark Manager OAuth Authentication Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBookmarks">Bookmark Manager OAuth REST API Tutorial with the Virtuoso OAuth Testing Tool</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkManagerProgrammersGuide">Bookmark Manager&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>