<docbook><section><title>ODSCalendarAtomUpstreaming</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">ODS Calendar Atom based upstream support</bridgehead>
<para>ODSCalendar now supports Atom based upstreaming.
 Any Calendar instance can be configured to escalate any changes to one or several remoted ODS Calendar instances.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>Upstreaming can be configured from <emphasis>Preferences</emphasis>-&gt;<emphasis>Upstreams</emphasis></para>
<para>The form for adding or changing existing upstream contains following fields:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> Name </entry><entry> name of the upstream - list of upstreams actually a list of such names </entry></row>
<row><entry> URI </entry><entry> URI of remote ODSCalendar Atom endpoint. Usually it is something like <ulink url="http://host:port/dataspace/">http://host:port/dataspace/</ulink>{ods-user}/calendar/{calendar-instance}/atom-pub </entry></row>
<row><entry> User</entry><entry> name of user who has write permissions on the remote ODSCalendar instance </entry></row>
<row><entry> Password </entry><entry> password of <emphasis>user</emphasis> </entry></row>
<row><entry> Include with tags </entry><entry> Calendar object with this tags will be upstreamed. </entry></row>
<row><entry> Exclude with tags</entry><entry> Calendar object with this tags will not be upstreamed. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>The upstreaming is performed on the interval set in the Virtuoso database ini file for paramater <emphasis>SchedulerInterval</emphasis> in the <emphasis>[Parameters]</emphasis> section.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Simple example:</bridgehead>
<para>We will use the following data from <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/ods:">http://myopenlink.net:8890/ods:</ulink> </para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>There is registered an user test1 with pwd 1.
</listitem>
<listitem>User test1 is an owner of a  test1Calendar Calendar instance.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>Now perform the following steps:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Install the ods_framework_dav.vad and ods_calendar_dav.vad packages.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to <ulink url="http://host:port/ods">http://host:port/ods</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Click Sign Up and register user / or login as existing one.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to the Calendar tab from the ODS main navigation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Create New&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form click the &quot;Create and Launch application&quot; button.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result you will be redirected to the Calendar UI home page of your just created Calendar instance.
 From the horizontal navigation click the &quot;Preferences&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Upstreams&quot; tab.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;New Upstream&quot; button.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter in the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Name:&quot; My upstream </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;URI:&quot; <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/calendar/test1Calendar/atom-pub">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/calendar/test1Calendar/atom-pub</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;User:&quot; test1 </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Password:&quot; 1 </listitem>
<listitem>Leave the tags fields empty for now.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>if you want to upstream certain events / tasks containing tags for ex.
 &quot;virtuoso&quot;, then you need to enter in the form field &quot;Include with tags (comma-separated)&quot; the value virtuoso and then to add this tag in the creation form for Events and Tasks.
</listitem>
<listitem>if you want not to upstream certain events / tasks containing tags for ex.
 &quot;sioc&quot;, then you need to enter in the form field &quot;Exclude with tags (comma-separated)&quot; the value sioc and then to add this tag in the creation form for Events and Tasks.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Create&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Back&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;New Event&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter in the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Name&quot;: my event </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Description&quot;: simple test </listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Create&quot;.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;New Task&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter in the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Subject&quot;: my task </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Start Date&quot;: 10.01.2008 </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Description&quot;: simple test </listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Create&quot;.&quot;.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Then go to: <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/calendar/test1Calendar">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/calendar/test1Calendar</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Open &quot;Events&quot; tab </listitem>
<listitem>You will then see: &quot;my event&quot; one.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to  the &quot;Task&quot; tab </listitem>
<listitem>View &quot;my task&quot;.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryCalendar">CategoryCalendar</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>