<docbook><section><title>OdsFeedManager</title><title>ODS Feed Manager</title>ODS Feed Manager
<para>A Web-based Feed Aggregator and Reader that supports a wide range of content syndication formats including RSS, Atom, OPML, and OCS.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Presentation &amp; Content</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Read and organize your content feeds without having to leave your browser or launch a separate application </listitem>
<listitem>Email Style 3-Pane layout for easy navigation of folders, feeds and read news and stories </listitem>
<listitem>Tag, Flag, Email, and Blog items as you read so you can find important information quickly </listitem>
<listitem>Feed Manager imports and exports content to, and from, feed aggregation formats such as OPML or OCS.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Organization</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Organize Feeds into folders and subfolders by topic and tag </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SmartFolder">Smart folders</ulink> - dynamic and virtualized views of content based search criteria.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Search</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Sophisticated search - basic Free Text, GData, SPARQL, XQuery, and XPath </listitem>
<listitem>Search includes keywords and content metadata.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSFeedManagerImport">Import My Subscriptions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFeedManagerExport">Export My subscriptions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManagerUseCase">Manage different Use Cases?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllersFeeds">Manipulate My Subscriptions data via REST using authentication based on OAuth, sessions, or password hash?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleFeeds">Use the Virtuoso OAuth Test tool to manage My Subscriptions ?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityFeeds">Use the Feed Manager Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFeedManagerUpdateInterval">Manage Feeds Subscription Update Interval Settings?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFeedManagerWebIDACL">Use WebID Protocol for enhanced Subscriptions Access Control Lists (ACLs)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefFeeds">Use SPARQL to Query My Subscriptions using the SIOC Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRefExampleFeeds">Use SPARQL to Query My Subscriptions using the Atom Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRefExampleFeeds">Use SPARQL to Query My Subscriptions using the SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRefExampleFeeds">Use SPARQL to Query My Subscriptions using the FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRefExampleFeeds">Use SPARQL to Query My Subscriptions using the Annotea Ontology</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManagerFAQ">Feed Manager FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManagerGettingStarted">Getting Started with Feed Manager</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Feed Manager Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsManageFeeds">Feed Manager Subscription Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsFeedsOAuthD">Feed Manager OAuth Authentication Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleFeeds">Feed Manager OAuth REST API Tutorial with the Virtuoso OAuth Testing Tool</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManagerProgrammersGuide">Feed Manager&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryFeedManager">CategoryFeedManager</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsFeedManager">CategoryOdsFeedManager</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>