<docbook><section><title>OdsGeneralOverview</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Overview</bridgehead>
<para>ODS gives you a full range of common web applications that you can host yourself.
 It frees you from dependence on a myriad of separate and non-integrated hosted applications and gives you control on how you appear to the web and semantic web.
 ODS can be used for setting up hosted services, for corporate intra and extranets or run on your PC as a privately hosted point of presence.</para>
<para>ODS is more than an integrated suite of common web applications.
 It is the basis for a web presence that covers conventional content for human consumption such as blogs as well as exposes the same content for the semantic web.
 ODS offers all standard feed formats, RSS, ATOM, FOAF and more where meaningful, all ODS data support tagging and are searchable via a common interface, supporting text as well as tags.</para>
<para>The next release of ODS will feature <ulink url="VOSSPARQL">SPARQL</ulink> and URIQA access to all data that users choose to make publicly available.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Application Components</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFramework">ODS-Framework</ulink>  - <ulink url="ODSOpenID">OpenID</ulink> and <ulink url="ODSYadis">Yadis</ulink> compliant Framework for building Distributed Collaborative Applications that are equipped with Single-Sign-On (SSO) funcitonality and auto-generated RDF Data Spaces </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBlog">ODS-Weblog</ulink> - Comprehensive blogging platform that support all the major publishing protocols (Atom, Moveable Type, Meta Weblog, and Blogger) and includes automatic generation of content syndication gems that support RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0, Atom, SIOC, OPML, OCS, and others </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcase">ODS-Briefcase</ulink> - <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> based Unified Storage Solution that incorporates automated metadata extraction and management </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManager">ODS-Feed-Manager</ulink> - RSS 1.0, 2.0, Atom, OPML, OCS Feed Aggregator </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsWiki">ODS-Wiki</ulink> - Wiki Platform that support the Atom Publishing Protocol alongside Twiki and Wikimedia markup </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMail">ODS-Mail</ulink> -  Web based Email Client </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsCalendar">ODS-Calendar</ulink> -  Calendar Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkManager">ODS-Bookmark-Manager</ulink> - Shared Bookmark Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsGallery">ODS-Gallery</ulink> - Photo &amp; General Image Sharing </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsPolls">ODS-Polls</ulink> - Polls Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbook">ODS-Addressbook</ulink> - Addressbook Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsDiscussions">ODS-Discussion</ulink> - Conversation / Discussion Management that also provides Conversation/Comment/Discussion management services to all of the ODS-* applications </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsCommunity">ODS-Community</ulink> - Group/Community Mode service for all of the ODS-* applications</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What are Data Spaces?</bridgehead>
<para>Data Spaces are a new database management technology frontier that deals with the virtualization of heterogeneous data and data sources via a plethora of data access protocols.</para>
<para>As Unified Data Stores,  Data Spaces also provide solid foundation for knowledge creation, processing, and dissemination; a making them a natural foundation platform for the emerging Data-Web (Semantic Web - Layer 1).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Benefits</bridgehead>
<para>ODS is a platform for cost-effective generation of points of Semantic Web Presence from Web 2.0 applications.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Standards and Protocols</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">Query Service Support</bridgehead>
<para>ODS supports a number of Query Services:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGData">GData</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>OpenSearch </listitem>
<listitem>XQuery/XPath over HTTP </listitem>
<listitem>Full Text Search over HTTP </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSSPARQL">SPARQL</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">Publishing Protocol Support</bridgehead>
<para>ODS supports the following publishing protocols:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGData">GData</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>ATOM 1.0 </listitem>
<listitem>Moveable Type </listitem>
<listitem>MetaWeblog </listitem>
<listitem>Blogger</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Getting Started</bridgehead>
<para>ODS comes with the Virtuoso Open Source 4.5.3 edition.
 If you are running the server with the demo database, just point the browser to <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/ods">http://localhost:8890/ods</ulink> . See <ulink url="OdsConfig">Setting up ODS</ulink> for the needed configuration steps for getting full functionality.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Learn More</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="DataSpaceFAQ">Data Space FAQ</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsScreenCasts">ODS Screencast Demonstrations</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SIOC Query Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/">Virtuoso Technology Blog</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen">Kingsley Idehen&#39;s Blog Data Space</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/weblog/public/search.vspx?blogid=127&amp;q=data%20spaces&amp;type=text&amp;output=html">Kingsley Idehen&#39;s Data Space commentary and articles</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/weblogs/oerling/">Orri Erling&#39;s Weblog Data Space</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> Check out our Blog Data Space in action by visiting the <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/">Virtuoso Technology Blog</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>