<docbook><section><title>OdsGalleryFAQ</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ODS Gallery FAQ</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is ODS Gallery?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Gallery is a friendly web-based application to store and to share your photos.
 The photos can be viewed as online albums where you can scroll through individual photos or view a slide show.
 You can access Gallery from any browser connected to the internet for personal viewing, uploading or sharing.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How many photos can I store?</bridgehead>
<para>The Gallery web-application does not limit the number of photos or albums you can store.
 Storage of images and other files is limited to the size of your database and your hardware.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Does Gallery restrict the photo sizes?</bridgehead>
<para>Gallery does not restrict the photo size.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I create an account?</bridgehead>
<para>Creating a Gallery account is easy.
 Register your ODS account and to start storing and sharing your photos.
 Choose a user name and password and agree to the Gallery terms and conditions, update your profile and create an instance of Gallery.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I access my albums or photos?</bridgehead>
<para> Visit http://[host.port]/[dataspace]/ ...
 and login using user name and password that you chose when subscribing.
 You can view your albums under the &#39;Albums&#39; page and get an overview of all your uploaded photos.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I create a new album?</bridgehead>
<para>After logging in, go to the &#39;Album&#39; page, choose &#39;Create a new album&#39; and fill in a name and description for your new album.
 Then click &#39;Create Album&#39; and enter the name of your new album.
 You are then presented with an upload page where you can start uploading new photos or add existing photos to any album.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I add photos to my albums?</bridgehead>
<para>There are two different ways to add photos to Gallery.
 You can use the web browser to upload photos -- </para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>You can use the Gallery Uploader UI.
</listitem>
<listitem>You can use <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> and copy the photos directly under the album page.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I share my album(s) with others?</bridgehead>
<para>You can share you album by selecting the radio button to share publicly.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Which type of photos or images can I upload to my Gallery album?</bridgehead>
<para>Gallery supports a variety of image formats including bmp, emf, gif, jpg, jpe, jpeg, and png.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What Web Services are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>Detailed information for the UI endpoint and wsdl location you can find <ulink url="ODSGalleryProgrammersGuideWebServices">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What Gallery ubiquity commands are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>A full list and examples of Gallery ubiquity commands you can find <ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityGallery">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> <ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink>  <ulink url="CategoryGallery">CategoryGallery</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsGallery">CategoryOdsGallery</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>