<docbook><section><title>OdsVOS</title><para>  </para>
<title> For VOSIndex (VOS public front page)</title> For VOSIndex (VOS public front page)
<para>This page lists ODS related changes to the VOS wiki.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> For VIRTNAV Navigation Bar</bridgehead>
 <ulink url="OdsOpenSourceWebIndex">ODS Applications</ulink><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> For VOSDownload</bridgehead>
 Add to end of page.
 See that the file names are right and all are listed.
 See from make install vad dir.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces</bridgehead>
 The source for ODS is bundled in the Virtuoso source tree.
 If you are running a binary distribution, you can download the ready made ODS VAD package files here.<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>ODS Framework (ods_dav.vad) </listitem>
<listitem>ODS Blog (blog_dav.vad) </listitem>
<listitem>ODS Briefcase (briefcase_dav.vad)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>See <ulink url="OdsOpenSourceWebConfig">Getting Started with ODS</ulink> for instructions.</para>
<para>The below goes on VOSRDF, at the bottom</para>
<para><ulink url="DAVRDF">DAV Metadata Access via SPARQL</ulink>   All public readable <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resources have their metadata presented as a SPARQL queriable graph.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> the below goes below the Articles link</bridgehead>
<para> </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsOpenSourceWebIndex">OpenLink Data Spaces</ulink> Application Suite</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">  The below goes at the head of the  news.
 on VOSIndex, also to VOSNews</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Announcing <ulink url="OdsOpenSourceWebIndex">OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS)</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>ODS is a suite of Virtuoso applications  for creating and maintaining modern web presence.
 It includes <ulink url="OdsFramework">Social Networking</ulink>, <ulink url="OdsBlog">Weblog Platform</ulink>,  <ulink url="OdsBriefcase">File Sharing</ulink>, <ulink url="OdsWiki">Wiki Platform</ulink>, <ulink url="OdsFeedManager">RSS 2.0, Atom 1.0, and RSS 1.1 Content Aggregation Platform</ulink> and <ulink url="ODSIndex">more</ulink>.</para>
<para>ODS has been development to provide and a coherent nexus for Web 2.0 and the Semantic Web (also known as Data Web).
 All ODS application Data Spaces can be queried via <ulink url="OdsGData">Google&#39;s GData protocol</ulink>.
 All Data Space front-end pages offer RSS 2.0, ATOM 1.0, and RSS 1.1 (RSS-RDF) content syndication feeds, FOAF (for individual Data Space insights covering data and social networks), VCard , XBEL and other standard  data interchange formats where applicable.</para>
<para>ODS also offers application data browsing via <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>, making the your data universe also viewable as a file system in the form of a URI-addressable and mountable tree (viewable via <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> aware clients).
   A later release will add SPARQL access to application data.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Announcing Virtuoso Open Source Edition 4.5.3</bridgehead>
<para>This update of Virtuoso adds support for the <ulink url="ODSIndex">OpenLink Data Spaces</ulink> applications suite, now bundled into the source tree.</para>
<para><ulink url="DAVRDF">Metadata</ulink> of resources stored in Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> repository is now queriable with SPARQL.
 There are updates to tutorials and demos plus bug fixes.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVOS">CategoryVOS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>