<docbook><section><title>ODSWeblogMetaWeblogAPI</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">ODS Weblog Meta Weblog (XML-RPC) API</bridgehead>
<para>Notes: The &quot;content&quot; is a struct (unlike in bloggerAPI), so it can contain the following standard keys:</para>
<programlisting>{
   string    title		 - for the title of the entry; 
   string    description	 - for the body of the entry;  
   string    dateCreated	 - to set the created-on date of the entry. 
   * string  userid		 - user made the post 
   * string  &quot;postid&quot;		 - post ID
   * string  link		 - link to the document 
   * string  permaLink		 - archive link
   int	     mt_allow_comments	 - the value for the &quot;allow_comments&quot; field. 
   int	     mt_allow_pings	 - the value for the &quot;allow_pings&quot; field. 
   string    mt_convert_breaks	 - the value for the &quot;convert_breaks&quot; field.
   string    mt_text_more	 - the value for the additional entry text.
   string    mt_excerpt		 - the value for the excerpt field; 
   string    mt_keywords	 - the value for the keywords field; 
   array     mt_tb_ping_urls	 - the list of TrackBack ping URLs for this entry.
  }
</programlisting><para> - If specified, &#39;dateCreated&#39; should be in ISO.8601 format.</para>
<para>- The members denoted with asterisk are available only upon retrieval operations (like getPost and getrecentPosts)</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>metaWeblog.newPost <programlisting>Description: Creates a new post, and optionally publishes it.
Parameters: 
        string  &quot;blogid&quot;
	string  &quot;username&quot;
	string  &quot;password&quot;
	struct  &quot;content&quot; 
	boolean &quot;publish&quot;
Return value: on success, String /&quot;postid&quot;/ of new post; on failure, fault
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>metaWeblog.editPost <programlisting>Description: Updates information about an existing post.
Parameters: 
        string  &quot;postid&quot;
	string  &quot;username&quot;
	string  &quot;password&quot;
	struct  &quot;content&quot;
	boolean &quot;publish&quot;
Return value: on success, boolean true value; on failure, fault
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>metaWeblog.getPost <programlisting>Description: Returns information about a specific post.
Parameters: 
	string &quot;postid&quot;
	string &quot;username&quot;
	string &quot;password&quot;
Return value: on success, struct on failure, fault
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>metaWeblog.getRecentPosts <programlisting>Description: Returns a list of the most recent posts in the system.
Parameters: 
	string	 &quot;blogid&quot;
	string	 &quot;username&quot;
	string	 &quot;password&quot;
	int	 &quot;numberOfPosts&quot;
Return value: on success, array of structs on failure, fault
</programlisting> </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODS Weblog Meta Weblog (XML-RPC) API Services UI Endpoint</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Weblog Meta Weblog (XML-RPC) API Services UI endpoint: </para>
<programlisting>http://host:port/mt-tb/services.vsmx
</programlisting><para> ODS Weblog Meta Weblog (XML-RPC) API Services wsdl Endpoint: </para>
<programlisting>http://host:port/mt-tb/services.wsdl
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">References</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://www.xmlrpc.com/metaWeblogApi">MetawebLog API (extension of blogger API with rss2 elements)</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>