<docbook><section><title>ODSYadis</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Yadis Overview</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is Yadis?</bridgehead>
 Yadis is an authentication service discovery protocol allowing Compliant Clients (identity consumers or member-sites) to deductively determine authentication protocol options available from a service provider.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Why is Yadis important?</bridgehead>
 It enables authentication method discovery in loosely coupled distributed network environments such as the Web.<para>The Yadis specification provides:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>A general purpose identifier for individuals and other entities </listitem>
<listitem>A resource description document for identifying services via identifiers </listitem>
<listitem>A protocol for obtaining resource description document for local processing</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Is Yadis implemented in ODS?</bridgehead>
 Every ODS dataspace user page provides Yadis compliant information.
Included in the head section of the user page is  (for example, for user demo at <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods/">http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods/</ulink> ):<programlisting>&lt;link rel=&quot;openid.server&quot; title=&quot;OpenID Server&quot; href=&quot;http://demo.openlinksw.com/openid&quot; /&gt;
&lt;meta http-equiv=&quot;X-XRDS-Location&quot; content=&quot;http://demo.openlinksw.com/dataspace/demo/yadis.xrds&quot; /&gt;
&lt;meta http-equiv=&quot;X-YADIS-Location&quot; content=&quot;http://demo.openlinksw.com/dataspace/demo/yadis.xrds&quot; /&gt;
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I use Yadis?</bridgehead>
<para>The ODS Yadis URL is:</para>
<programlisting>http://host:port/dataspace/[your-ods-username]
</programlisting><para> For example, for user demo at <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods/">http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods/</ulink> --</para>
<programlisting>http://demo.openlinksw.com/dataspace/demo/
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Interoperability</bridgehead>
<para>The ODS implementation of Yadis has been tested with a number of Yadis Compliant Clients.
 All tests were performed using our public <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods">ODS Demo Server</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5"><ulink url="http://demoserver.leasystem.info/demo.exe/Check">leaSystem Yadis Check</ulink></bridgehead>
 Passed successfully.<programlisting>Yadis Check

InfoAgent found an XRDS using the X-XRDS-Location HTTP header.

OKThe XRDS document is valid!

Now try checking for a specific type identifier:

Your document looks like this (after being handled by my XML parser):

&lt;xrds:XRDS xmlns:xrds=&quot;xri://$xrds&quot; xmlns:openid=&quot;http://openid.net/xmlns/1.0&quot; xmlns=&quot;xri://$xrd*($v*2.0)&quot;&gt;
 &lt;XRD&gt;
  &lt;Service priority=&quot;1&quot;&gt;
   &lt;Type&gt;http://openid.net/signon/1.0&lt;/Type&gt;
   &lt;Type&gt;http://openid.net/sreg/1.0&lt;/Type&gt;
   &lt;URI&gt;http://demo.openlinksw.com/openid&lt;/URI&gt;
   &lt;openid:Delegate&gt;http://demo.openlinksw.com/dataspace/demo&lt;/openid:Delegate&gt;
  &lt;/Service&gt;
 &lt;/XRD&gt;
&lt;/xrds:XRDS&gt;
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"><ulink url="http://netmesh.org/projects/yadis/">NetMesh Yadis area</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Tested with the Perl Scripts provided by the url above.</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Passed successfully.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"><ulink url="http://firstsso.netmesh.org/">NetMesh FirstSSO</ulink></bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://firstsso.netmesh.org/infogrid-php/?lid=">NetMesh InfoGrid LID PHP implementation</ulink>: Passed successfully.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://firstsso.netmesh.org/infogrid-java/?lid=">NetMesh InfoGrid LID Java implementation</ulink>: Passed successfully.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://firstsso.netmesh.org/infogrid-perl/?lid=">NetMesh InfoGrid LID Perl implementation</ulink>: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://firstsso.netmesh.org/infogrid-perl/?lid=">The NetMesh&#39;s perl</ulink> test page even fails with myopenid identity.
 It does not redirecting properly.
 Firefox has detected that the server is redirecting the request for this address in a way that will never complete.
 This problem can sometimes be caused by disabling or refusing to accept cookies.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"><ulink url="http://www.raschke.net/~kurt/txp_test/">txp_test</ulink></bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>according to the notes from <ulink url="http://lists.danga.com/pipermail/yadis/2005-August/001370.html">OpenID support in Textpattern mailing list</ulink>, attempt to Login at the url below as user test, pwd 9xycp0 fails.
 Can not find way to authentication with <ulink url="OpenID">OpenID</ulink>, either.
<programlisting>http://www.raschke.net/~kurt/txp_test/textpattern/
</programlisting> </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Resources</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://yadis.org">Yadis Community Site</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://yadis.org/wiki/Yadis_Protocol_Draft_0.8">Yadis Protocol</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://yadis.org/wiki/Yadis_Services_Listing">Yadis Services Listing</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://yadis.org/wiki/Yadis_Online_Tools">Yadis Online Tools</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryYadis">CategoryYadis</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>