<div id="lite_osxinstall" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

## 4.5. Mac OS X

</div>

</div>

</div>

The OpenLink Single-Tier Driver for ODBC for Mac OS X is distributed in
a single disk image (.dmg) file, which contains a Macintosh Installer
mpkg.

Double-click the mpkg to start the installation process. This example
shows images based on the OpenLink Single-Tier SQL Server Driver
Installer; slightly different options may be presented with different
Driver Installers, but the general idea is the same.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-401" class="figure">

**Figure 4.24. OpenLink-SQLServerLite-5.0.dmg**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![OpenLink-SQLServerLite-5.0.dmg](images/osxlite01.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You must have an Administration username and password to install the
OpenLink Single-Tier Driver for ODBC. Click on the padlock, and enter
your Mac OS X Username and Password.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-402" class="figure">

**Figure 4.25. Authorization**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Authorization](images/osxlite02.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-403" class="figure">

**Figure 4.26. Authentication**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Authentication](images/osxlite03.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The installer will display a "Welcome" message. Click "Continue".

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-404" class="figure">

**Figure 4.27. Welcome**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Welcome](images/osxlite04.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The next screen will display the Read-Me file, including any last-
minute updates to these documents. Please read carefully, and click
"Continue" when finished.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-405" class="figure">

**Figure 4.28. Read Me**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Read Me](images/osxlite05.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The next screen will display the License Agreement for the OpenLink
Single-Tier Driver for ODBC. Please read, and click "Continue".

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-406" class="figure">

**Figure 4.29. Software License Agreement**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Software License Agreement](images/osxlite06.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You will be prompted to "Agree" to continue the installation, or
"Disagree" to abort.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-407" class="figure">

**Figure 4.30. Agree or Disagree to Licensing**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Agree or Disagree to Licensing](images/osxlite07.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You will be asked to select a Destination Volume. Generally, this should
be your Mac OS X boot volume. Click on the desired disk icon, and then
click "Continue".

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-408" class="figure">

**Figure 4.31. Choose Destination**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Choose Destination](images/osxlite08.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You may now choose the Easy Install, or if you are an experienced user,
you may Customize which components are installed. OpenLink generally
recommends the Easy Install.

If you have installed OpenLink or iODBC components in the past, click
"Upgrade" to continue; otherwise, click "Install".

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-409" class="figure">

**Figure 4.32. Easy Install**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Easy Install](images/osxlite09.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-410" class="figure">

**Figure 4.33. Custom Install**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Custom Install](images/osxlite10.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You will be shown a graphical progress bar as Installation progresses,
followed by System Optimization.

You will be need to locate the license file.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-maclic" class="figure">

**Figure 4.34. Select license file**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Select license file](images/osxlitelic.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-maclic2" class="figure">

**Figure 4.35. Browse for License file**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Browse for License file](images/osxlitelicbrowser.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

When the process is complete, you will be told that the software was
successfully installed. Click "Close" and your new database driver for
ODBC is ready for use!

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-411" class="figure">

**Figure 4.36. Installation Successful**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Installation Successful](images/osxlite11.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Use the iODBC Administrator to configure a data source. Refer to the
<a href="lite_osxliteconf.html#lite_osxconfigdsn" class="link"
title="Mac OS X ODBC Data Sources">Mac OS X Data Source
Configuration</a> Chapter if you need more information.

</div>
