<div id="lite_wininstall" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

## 4.2. Windows (32-bit)

</div>

</div>

</div>

The OpenLink Single-Tier Driver for ODBC is distributed in a single zip
file. Unzip the contents of the zip file to a temporary directory such
as c:\temp\openlink_install.

Execute the installer program called setup.exe

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-413" class="figure">

**Figure 4.1. setup.exe**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![setup.exe](images/winlite01.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The installer will unpack and verify the contents of the installer
files, and display a 'Welcome' message as follows. Press the 'Next \>'
button to continue.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-414" class="figure">

**Figure 4.2. Welcome Screen**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Welcome Screen](images/winlite02.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The next screen will display the License Agreement for installation and
use of the OpenLink Lite Driver product. Please read this. If you agree,
then press the 'Yes' button to continue the installation.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-415" class="figure">

**Figure 4.3. Software License Agreement**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Software License Agreement](images/winlite03.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You will then be asked change the Destination Folder if the default
location is not desired. Use the 'Browse' button and proceeding pop-up
to navigate to the installation directory of your choosing. Press the
'Next\>' button to continue.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-416" class="figure">

**Figure 4.4. Choose Destination**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Choose Destination](images/winlite04.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The next screen allows you to choose the components and alter the
sub-components that will be installed onto your computer.

By default all components will be installed. If you wish to alter the
list either uncheck the check box or refine the sub-components by
selecting the group and pressing the 'Change' which will take to you the
sub-components selection screens (listed below).

When you are satisfied that you are installing the necessary components
press the 'Next \>' button to continue the installation.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-417" class="figure">

**Figure 4.5. Select Components**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Select Components](images/winlite05.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-418" class="figure">

**Figure 4.6. Configurable JDBC Client Classes Sub-Components**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Configurable JDBC Client Classes Sub-Components](images/winlite06.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-419" class="figure">

**Figure 4.7. Configurable ODBC Samples Sub-Components**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Configurable ODBC Samples Sub-Components](images/winlite07.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

If JDBC Components have been selected, then you must choose which JDK
environment to use. The installer will then make changes to the
CLASSPATH so that the Java interpreter can find the OpenLink JDBC
Driver.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-420" class="figure">

**Figure 4.8. Choose JDK support**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Choose JDK support](images/winlite08.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Change or accept the default name for the Program Folder name to be used
in the 'Start' menu into which the installer will place shortcuts to
components.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-421" class="figure">

**Figure 4.9. Choose Program Folder**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Choose Program Folder](images/winlite09.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The final confirmation screen will appear. Press the '\< Back' button to
make changes or press the 'Next \>' button to continue and start
installing files to your computer.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-422" class="figure">

**Figure 4.10. Start copying files...**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Start copying files...](images/winlite10.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

A progress indicator will follow the copying of the files.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_winliteprog" class="figure">

**Figure 4.11. Copy of files**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Copy of files](images/winlite10c.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

If a license file is not located in the required directory, you will be
prompted for the location so that it may be copied into place.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_winlitelic" class="figure">

**Figure 4.12. Get License**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Get License](images/winlite10s.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You are reminded to use the ODBC Administrator to configure a data
source. Refer to the
<a href="lite_dsnconfwin.html#lite_configdsn" class="link"
title="Windows ODBC Data Sources">Windows Data Source Configuration</a>
Chapter for more information.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-423" class="figure">

**Figure 4.13. Data Source Setup**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Data Source Setup](images/winlite11.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Finally you will be asked to restart your computer. This is recommended
to make sure that locked files are replaced, and the environment is
updated.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="lite_fg-424" class="figure">

**Figure 4.14. Completion Screen**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Completion Screen](images/winlite12.gif)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

You have now successfully installed your copy of the OpenLink Universal
Data Access Driver Suite (Lite Edition).

</div>
