%VOSWARNING%


%META:TOPICPARENT{name="OdsFAQ"}%

---+ Bookmark Manager FAQ

%TOC%

---++General

---+++What is ODS Bookmark Manager?

ODS Bookmark manager is an integrated bookmarking tool that allows you to
save and organize your favorite web page or blogs. Bookmark Manager
provides an simple web-based interface where you can add and tag links and
file under folders for quick searches and instant viewing.

---++Bookmark Management

---+++How do I create a bookmark?

To create a bookmark, select the "New Bookmark" ICON in the navigation
toolbar at the top. In the Add Bookmark form, enter a Name for the
bookmark, the URL location of the web site or blog, enter a tag, a brief
description and create or choose from a list of folders, then click the
"Save" button.

---+++How do I create folders?

To create a folder, select the "New Folder" Icon in the navigation toolbar
at the top. Under the folder/create form select the parent folder from the
pull-down list and enter the name of the new folder. Additionally, you can
crate new folder at the same time you add or modify a bookmark.

---+++How do I import my bookmarks from other applications?

You can include any bookmarks from Firefox, Internet Explorer or any book
marking system. First, you must save your bookmarks from the other
application to a file. Then to import your bookmarks, select the "Import"
ICON and then browse to the location of the file and select this file
containing the exported bookmarks. Sample scenario you can find [[OdsBookmarkImport][here]].

---+++How do I export my bookmarks?

Bookmarks can be exported in HTML format to be included in any bookmark
system. To export your bookmarks select the "Export" ICON from the
Navigation toolbar at the top and then choose save.

---+++How do I edit/delete my bookmarks?

To delete a bookmark browse through the folders containing the bookmarks,
the put a check mark next to the bookmark you want to delete and click the
"Delete" ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the top. To edit perform the
same steps as above, but instead of selecting the "Delete" ICON, choose the
"Properties" ICON. Under properties, you can rename the bookmark, modify
the URL, add or remove the tag, modify the description and change the
folder.

---+++Can I rename or move my bookmarks?

Yes; to rename a bookmark browse through the folders containing the
bookmarks, the put a check mark next to the bookmark you want to delete and
click the "Rename" ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the top.


---+++What is a bookmarklet?

The bookmarklet is a small program that allows the Bookmark Manager
application stored as a URL shortcut within a bookmark or bookmark toolbar
Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Firefox or other web browsers.

---++Tags

---+++What is a tag?

A tag is a keyword used to organize or categorize your feeds for quick
searches. Like ODS Feed Manager, ODS Bookmark Manager has an optional
display, which will show all your tags as Tag Cloud, which will display
your tags in different size fonts base on usage.

---+++How do I create a tag?

You can create a tag when adding a new bookmark or by browsing through the
folders containing the bookmarks, the put a check mark next to the bookmark
you want to tag and click the "Tag" ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the
top.

---+++How do I view my tags?

You can view tagged bookmarks by selecting the "Show Tags" Link in the
Navigation tool bar at the top. Tags are displayed in various font size to
depict the tag usage. The more frequent the larger the font for the
specific tag.

---++Syndication

---+++What feed formats are supported?

Bookmark Manager supports the following RSS, ATOM, RDF and XBEL feed formats.

---++Search

---+++How do I search bookmark manager?

You can search bookmark manager using a simple keyword search at the top by
entering a keyword and selecting search. Optionally, you can select the
Advanced link and enter a list of keyword, enter an expression or a list of
tags. Search results include the name and location of the bookmark and
syndication options including RSS, ATOM, RDF and XBEL formats.

---++Web Services

---+++What is the services endpoint?

SIOC predicates are added for the new services at: 

<verbatim>
http://[host][port]/dataspace/services/bookmark
</verbatim>

---+++Which services are implemented?

The services are:

   * bookmark_import
   * bookmark_export
   * bookmark_update

For more details see [[ODSBookmarkManagerProgrammersGuideWebServices][here]].


---++How can subscribe to URL accessible Bookmarks?

You can subscribe to URL accessible Bookmarks using the Bookmark Manager Subscription feature. More details and sample scenario you can find [[OdsBookmarkSubscr][here]].

---++How can I Publish my Bookmarks to Bookmark format for exchange with 3rd party Bookmark compliant applications?

You can publish calendar items to Bookmark format using the Bookmark Manager Publications feature. More details and sample scenario you can find [[OdsBookmarkPublish][here]].


---++Can I Share my Bookmarks?

Yes. Bookmark manager offers sharing feature within the ODS registered users. For more information and sample scenario see [[OdsBookmarkShare][here]].

---++Can I Export my Bookmarks?

Yes. Bookmark manager offers export feature within the ODS registered users. For more information and sample scenario see [[OdsBookmarkExport][here]].

---++What Bookmarks Ubiquity Commands are supported?

A full list and examples of Bookmarks ubiquity commands you can find [[VirtuosoOdsUbiquityBookmarks][here]].

CategoryFAQ CategoryOdsBookmark CategoryBookmark CategoryODS