%META:TOPICPARENT{name="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesVendorNonRDF"}%
---+Hotels.com

%TOC%

In order to maximize the amount and quality of data extracted, the Sponger's 
support for Hotels.com comes in three forms: as a regular extractor cartridge, 
as a query-language cartridge and as a metacartridge.

---++Extractor Cartridge

This is used for modelling a single identified hotel object as RDF. Typical URL 
patterns take the form 
<nowiki>&lt;http://www.hotels.com/hotel/details.html?hotelId=nnnnn&gt;</nowiki>.
In practice, such URLs rarely exist in the wild so we regard this as the 
canonical URL for a hotel and identify the pattern ?hotelId=nnnnn in other URLs 
accordingly.

---++Query-Language cartridge

The Sponger's Query-language cartridges are a subset of the extractor 
cartridges, defined as working against resources that are themselves queries. 
In this case, the hotels.com website allows a user to enter some free-form text 
to locate a hotel; we treat the URL as identifying a resultset and model that 
as a container linking to individual hotels.

Features differentiating this from other modes: if a new hotel is built 
tomorrow and matches the search, responging the same page will show new data 
dynamically; there is no hotelId in the URL to restrict the query to one hotel.

---++Metacartridge

The Sponger's metacartridges enhance data already present in a graph. In this 
case, the Hotels.com metacartridge searches for triples identifying a location 
in the graph and adds links showing hotels in the vicinity.

---++Configuration

The hotels.com cartridges are implemented using the Expedia Affiliate Network 
(EAN) API. To use them, you need to sign up with EAN, register a new 
application and put the API key in the API key field in the sponger cartridge's 
configuration page in the Virtuoso Conductor. 

Example:

Go to https://developer.ean.com/ and click `sign up' or sign in if already 
registered.

   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/ean-hotels-1.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

Click on `[[https://developer.ean.com/apps/mykeys][my account]]' and you should 
see an overview of your applications and their keys and secrets. 

   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/ean-hotels-2.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

Go to the Virtuoso Conductor, e.g. 
<nowiki>http://localhost:8889/conductor/</nowiki> (adjust host and port) and 
log in. In the menus, click Linked Data / Sponger and you'll see the extractor 
cartridges.

   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/conductor-3.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

Ensure the Hotels.com extractor cartridge is enabled and apply. Then scroll 
down and select it, to change its settings:

   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/conductor-4.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

Copy and paste the API Key from EAN into the cartridge configuration and update.

   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/conductor-5.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

Next, in the sponger menu, go to the Metacartridges tab and similarly enable 
the cartridge and paste the key in its setings also.


   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/conductor-6.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />
   * <img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/conductor-7.png" style="wikiautogen" style="width: 75%; height: 75%" />

---++See Also

   * [[VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesVendorNonRDF][Vendor-specific supported data sources]]
   * [[VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesQueryLanguages][Query-Language Cartridges]]
   * [[VirtSponger][Virtuoso Sponger]]