<docbook><section><title/>
  <para>
    
    
    <title>Apply
    Release 6.x Express Edition License Files on Mac OS X</title><ulink url=""/>Apply
    Release 6.x Express Edition License Files on Mac OS X
    <orderedlist spacing="compact">
      <listitem><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> You must be logged in as a user with
      Administrator privileges.</emphasis>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>For best results, quit all ODBC client applications and
      administrative tools to start this process, and do not
      relaunch any of them until instructed to test your
      connection.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Locate your new license file in your email or <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/SupportWeb/ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS Briefcase</ulink>, and note its
        name.
        
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Open a Finder window, and drill down to <emphasis>Macintosh
      HD</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Library</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Application Support</emphasis>
      -&gt; <emphasis>openlink</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>bin</emphasis>.
        
        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <listitem>In this directory, locate any existing file by the
          same name as your new license file. Generally, this can
          simply be discarded, but you can keep it if you like;
          simply move it to a different location (such as your
          Desktop) or rename it (e.g., sql_lt.lic.2011-03-21.bak).
          Once the new license is confirmed to work, it's usually
          best to discard the expired and/or unused license files,
          to avoid future confusion.
          </listitem>
          <listitem>Drag your new license file from your email or
            <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/SupportWeb/ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS Briefcase</ulink> to this directory,
            replacing any existing file by the same name.
            
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Launch <emphasis>Terminal.app</emphasis> (found in
      /Applications/Utilities/).
        
        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <listitem>Execute these three commands (you can just
          copy-and-paste) --
            <programlisting>cd "/Library/Application Support/openlink/bin"
./oplmgr +stop
./oplmgr +start
</programlisting>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>If you get an error, execute these two commands
          (again, you can just copy-and-paste), and provide your
          Mac OS X user password when prompted --
            <programlisting>sudo ./oplmgr +stop
sudo ./oplmgr +start
</programlisting>
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Test your connection with the <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/SupportWeb/OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Administrator.app or any
        other ODBC client application.
        
        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <listitem>If license errors come up, reboot, and test
          again.
          </listitem>
          <listitem>If errors persist, please <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">log a Support Case</ulink>.
            
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
  </para>
</section></docbook>