<docbook><section><title>OATDOCtagcloud</title><para> </para>
<title> tagcloud.js</title> tagcloud.js
<para>Displays a &quot;Tag Cloud&quot;, a visually enhanced set of links.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Objects</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloud(div, optionsObject)</bridgehead>
<para>Creates a Tag Cloud inside <computeroutput>div</computeroutput>.
 Options are specified in <computeroutput>optionsObject</computeroutput>:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>separator</emphasis></computeroutput> - string which separates individual entries </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>colors</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of colors to be used </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>sizes</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of font sizes to be used </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>colorMapping</emphasis></computeroutput> - one of the <computeroutput>OAT.TagCloudData.COLOR_</computeroutput> constants</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Methods</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloud.clearItems()</bridgehead>
<para>Removes all items (links).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloud.addItem(name, link[, frequency])</bridgehead>
<para>Adds a new item.
 Its label is <computeroutput>name</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>link</computeroutput> is an URL.
 Third argument, <computeroutput>frequency</computeroutput>is optional and defaults to 1.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloud.draw()</bridgehead>
<para>Draws the Tag Cloud.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Constants</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloudData.COLOR_SIZE</bridgehead>
<para>Create color based on size (frequency).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloudData.COLOR_CYCLE</bridgehead>
<para>Periodically cycle all specified colors.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.TagCloudData.COLOR_RANDOM</bridgehead>
<para>Use randomly chosen color for each item.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Example</bridgehead>
<programlisting>var colors = [&quot;#f00&quot;,&quot;#0f0&quot;,&quot;#00f&quot;];
var sizes = [&quot;80%&quot;,&quot;100%&quot;,&quot;120%&quot;];
var tc = new OAT.TagCloud(&quot;myDiv&quot;,{separator:&quot;, &quot;, 
                          colorMapping:OAT.TagCloudData.COLOR_SIZE, 
                          colors:colors, sizes:sizes});

tc.addItem(&quot;Label 1&quot;, &quot;http://&quot;, 10);
tc.addItem(&quot;Label 2&quot;, &quot;http://&quot;, 5);
tc.addItem(&quot;Label 3&quot;, &quot;http://&quot;); /* frequency == 1 */

tc.draw();
</programlisting><para> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>