<docbook><section><title>OATDOCdock</title><para> </para>
<title> dock.js</title> dock.js
<para>Creates a draggable system of docking elements, grouped into columns.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Objects</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.Dock(div, numColumns)</bridgehead>
<para>Creates a dock inside <computeroutput>div</computeroutput> with <computeroutput>numColumns</computeroutput> columns.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Methods</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.Dock.addObject(colIndex, content, options)</bridgehead>
<para>Adds a new window to dock, to the column with index <computeroutput>colIndex</computeroutput>.
 This window contains <computeroutput>content</computeroutput>.
 Object <computeroutput>options</computeroutput> may contain:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>color</emphasis></computeroutput> - of border &amp; header </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>titleColor</emphasis></computeroutput> - font color in header </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>title</emphasis></computeroutput></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Messages</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.MSG.DOCK_DRAG</bridgehead>
<para>Sent after dock window is dragged to another position.
 Contains object with old and new coordinates of the window(oldX,oldY,newX,newY).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.MSG.DOCK_REMOVE</bridgehead>
<para>Sent after dock window is closed (removed).
 Contains the removed window object.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> CSS classes</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the whole dock div.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_blank</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the blank space that appears below when dock window is being dragged to another place.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_column</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of all dock columns.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_column_n</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class specific to nth dock column.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_window</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the dock window div (single item in the dock)</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_header</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the dock window header div</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .dock_content</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the dock window content div</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Example</bridgehead>
<programlisting>var content = OAT.Dom.create(&quot;div&quot;);
content.innerHTML = &quot;lorem ipsum :)&quot;
var d = new OAT.Dock(&quot;parentDiv&quot;, 3);
d.addObject(0, content, {title:&quot;Sample window&quot;});
</programlisting><para> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>