<docbook><section><title>OATDOCsimplefx</title><para> </para>
<title> simplefx.js</title> simplefx.js
<para>Simple eyecandy effects: shadows, rounding etc.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Functions</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.SimpleFX.shadow(element, options)</bridgehead>
<para>Adds a shadow to <computeroutput>element</computeroutput>.
 Available <computeroutput>options</computeroutput> are:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>imagePath</emphasis></computeroutput> - path to directory with shadow images </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>offsetX</emphasis></computeroutput> ,<computeroutput> <emphasis>offsetY</emphasis></computeroutput> - horizontal and vertical offset </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>rightSize</emphasis></computeroutput>,<computeroutput> <emphasis>bottomSize</emphasis></computeroutput> - dimensions of shadows </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>rightImage</emphasis></computeroutput>, <computeroutput> <emphasis>bottomImage</emphasis></computeroutput> ,<computeroutput> <emphasis>cornerImage</emphasis></computeroutput> - file names</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg(element, options)</bridgehead>
<emphasis>  <ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink>  - Verify <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv</computeroutput> vs <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg</computeroutput> - original documentation had this section header as <computeroutput>roundImg</computeroutput> -- but sample code was <computeroutput>roundDiv</computeroutput></emphasis><para>Creates rounded corners on <computeroutput>element</computeroutput>, using images.
 Available <computeroutput>options</computeroutput> are:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>corners</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of booleans, specifying corners to be rounded.
 Starting from left top clockwise.
</listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>edges</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of booleans, specifying edges to be rounded.
 Starting from top clockwise.
</listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>cornerFiles</emphasis></computeroutput>, <computeroutput><emphasis>edgeFiles</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of file names </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>thickness</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of sizes, specifying thicknesses of corners.
 Starting from left top clockwise.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv(element, optionsObject)</bridgehead>
<emphasis>  <ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink>  - Verify <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv</computeroutput> vs <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg</computeroutput> - original documentation had this section header as <computeroutput>roundImg</computeroutput> -- but sample code was <computeroutput>roundDiv</computeroutput> </emphasis><para>Creates rounded corners on <computeroutput>element</computeroutput>, using stacked DIVs.
Available <computeroutput>options</computeroutput> are:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>corners</emphasis></computeroutput> - array of booleans, specifying <computeroutput>corners</computeroutput> to be rounded, clockwise from top left.
</listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>color</emphasis></computeroutput>, <computeroutput><emphasis>backgroundColor</emphasis></computeroutput> - colors to be used.
 <computeroutput><ulink url="BackgroundColor">BackgroundColor</ulink></computeroutput> is used only for computation of antialiasing color.
 Defaults to &#39;<computeroutput>auto</computeroutput>&#39; (=inherit).
</listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>antialias</emphasis></computeroutput> - boolean value </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>size</emphasis></computeroutput> - radius.
 Good values are <computeroutput>2-8</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.SimpleFX.shader(clicker, target, options)</bridgehead>
 Marks <computeroutput>clicker</computeroutput> as a button, which hides/shows <computeroutput>target</computeroutput>.
<computeroutput>Target</computeroutput> may be an array of elements.
 Available <computeroutput>options</computeroutput> are:<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>type</emphasis></computeroutput> - (toggle) <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>0</emphasis></computeroutput> = only hide </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>1</emphasis></computeroutput> = only show </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput><emphasis>2</emphasis></computeroutput> = both</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Examples</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Example 1, using OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg</bridgehead>
<emphasis>  <ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink>  - Verify <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg</computeroutput> vs <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv</computeroutput> - original code had <computeroutput>roundDiv</computeroutput>, but description was <computeroutput>roundImg</computeroutput></emphasis><programlisting>OAT.SimpleFX.shadow(&quot;myDiv&quot;, {});
OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg(&quot;myDiv&quot;,{corners:[1,1,0,0]});
OAT.SimpleFX.shader(&quot;myDiv&quot;, [&quot;myDiv1&quot;,&quot;myDiv2&quot;], {type:2});
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Example 2, using OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv</bridgehead>
<emphasis>  <ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink>  - Verify <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundImg</computeroutput> vs <computeroutput>OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv</computeroutput> - original code had <computeroutput>roundDiv</computeroutput>, but description was <computeroutput>roundImg</computeroutput></emphasis><programlisting>OAT.SimpleFX.shadow(&quot;myDiv&quot;, {});
OAT.SimpleFX.roundDiv(&quot;myDiv&quot;, {antialias:1, size:5});
OAT.SimpleFX.shader(&quot;myDiv&quot;, [&quot;myDiv1&quot;,&quot;myDiv2&quot;], {type:2});
</programlisting><para> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryToBeDone">CategoryToBeDone</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>