<docbook><section><title>OATDOCcombolist</title><para> </para>
<title> combolist.js</title> combolist.js
<para>Creates a combolist, &lt;select&gt; with additional possibility of direct user input.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Objects</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.Combolist(optList, defaultValue, optionsObject)</bridgehead>
<para>Creates a combolist containing values from <computeroutput>optListarray</computeroutput>, with a value of <computeroutput>defaultValue</computeroutput>.</para>
<para>Its main div is accessible as <computeroutput>OAT.Combolist::div</computeroutput>.</para>
<para>Onchange callback may be set via <computeroutput>OAT.Combolist::onchange</computeroutput> property.<computeroutput>optionsObject</computeroutput> may contain:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>name</emphasis> </computeroutput> - html name attribute for relevant input tag </listitem>
<listitem><computeroutput> <emphasis>imagePath</emphasis> </computeroutput></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Methods</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.Combolist::addOption(label, value)</bridgehead>
<para>Adds a new option labeled <computeroutput>label</computeroutput> with value of <computeroutput>value</computeroutput>.
 If <computeroutput>value</computeroutput> is not specified, <computeroutput>label</computeroutput> is used instead.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> OAT.Combolist::clearOpts()</bridgehead>
<para>Clears all options.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> CSS classes</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .combo_list</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the combolist div.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .combo_list_input</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the text input field option.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .combo_list_option</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the regular option.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> .combo_list_list</bridgehead>
<para>CSS class of the option list.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Example</bridgehead>
<programlisting>var cl = new OAT.Combolist([],&quot;default&quot;,{name:&quot;myName&quot;});
document.body.appendChild( cl.div );
cl.addOption(&quot;option 1&quot;);
cl.addOption(&quot;option 2&quot;,&quot;value 2&quot;);
</programlisting><para> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>