<docbook><section><title>OatFAQ</title><title> OpenLink Ajax Toolkit (OAT) Frequently Asked Questions</title> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Ajax Toolkit (OAT) Frequently Asked Questions
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> General</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What is OAT?</bridgehead>
<para>The <ulink url="OpenLinkAJAX">OpenLinkAJAX</ulink> Toolkit is a <ulink url="JavaScript">JavaScript</ulink>   library which we created to enable the development of database-independent rich internet applications (RIAs).
 It includes a database-connectivity layer (called AJAX Database Connectivity) that sits atop XMLA, thereby providing AJAX applications with the same data-access independence historically offered by ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE-DB.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What is Ajax?</bridgehead>
<para>AJAX (Asynchronous <ulink url="JavaScript">JavaScript</ulink> and XML), or Ajax, is a group of interrelated web development technologies used for creating interactive web applications.
 A primary characteristic is the increased responsiveness and interactivity of web pages achieved by exchanging small amounts of data with the server &quot;behind the scenes&quot; so that the entire web page does not have to be reloaded each time the user performs an action.
 This is intended to increase the web page&#39;s interactivity, speed, functionality, and usability.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What are the benefits of Ajax?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The ability to leverage the same interface technology no matter whether you&#39;re dealing with local or remote sites or applications.
</listitem>
<listitem>The ability to build standard interfaces independent of client browser, OS, and other variables.
</listitem>
<listitem>Using AJAX leads to deploying service-oriented enterprise applications much easier, avoiding platform localization and testing issues.
</listitem>
<listitem>The ability to leverage Web services using a more dynamic and rich interface than traditional browser technology.
</listitem>
<listitem>The ability to quickly create mash-ups to solve specific business problems using standard dynamic interfaces that front services.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What is the relationship between Ajax and Rich Internet Applications?</bridgehead>
<para>Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) are web applications that offer the responsiveness, &quot;rich&quot; features and functionality approaching that of desktop applications.
 Early Internet applications supported only a basic HTML graphical user interface (GUI).
 Though they could serve simple functions, these applications did not have the look or feel of a desktop application.
 The relatively slow Internet connections these applications relied on led to the term &quot;World Wide Wait.&quot; RIAs are a result of today&#39;s more advanced technologies that allow greater responsiveness and advanced GUIs.
 On the other sight, AJAX allows partial page updatesmeaning updates of individual pieces of a web page without having to reload the entire page.
 This creates a more responsive GUI, allowing users to continue interacting with the page as the server processes requests.
 Additionally, Ajax performs a vital role in Web 2.0, particularly in building Web-top applications and enhancing the user&#39;s overall experience.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What are the benefits of OAT?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Easy to use and include in different applications </listitem>
<listitem>Offers rich list of complete widgets </listitem>
<listitem>Offers rich list of supplemental widgets </listitem>
<listitem>Includes libraries such as JSON, Cryptography, Statistics, etc.
</listitem>
<listitem>Easy to use Ajax DB Connectivity </listitem>
<listitem>Includes a number of standalone applications for SPARQL, RDF data processing, etc.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Who is the target audience for OAT?</bridgehead>
<para>All application developers.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can OAT be used in conjunction with other Frameworks?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 One example is the Virtuoso ODS Framework ods_dav_vad package.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What Browsers are compatible with OAT?</bridgehead>
<para>OAT works in Gecko browsers (Firefox, Mozilla/SeaMonkey), IE6/7, Opera and Apple <ulink url="WebKit">WebKit</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How is OAT Licensed?</bridgehead>
<para>OAT is licensed under the GNU General Public License.</para>
<para>Note that the only valid version of the GPL license as far as this project is concerned is the original GNU General Public License Version 2, dated June 1991.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> UI Widgets and Controls</bridgehead>
<para>The OAT UI Widgets and Controls are divided into 2 sections:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>complete widgets </listitem>
<listitem>supplemental widgets</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What are OAT Controls?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Why are they important?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I use them?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Are there any usage samples?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 You can check our <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/DAV/JS/oat/docs/index.html">online documentation</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Data Access Framework</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What is Ajax Database Connectivity?</bridgehead>
<para>Ajax Database Connectivity is a Generic Data Access API for <ulink url="JavaScript">JavaScript</ulink> that provides transparent access to SQL (via XMLA), RDF (via SPARQL), XML (via HTTP), Web Services (SOAP or REST variants over HTTP), and Free Text (via GData).
 It provides query results in JSON or XML and includes in-built support for XSLT and XPath/XQuery should additional local post-processing be required.</para>
<para>XMLA is the SOAP or REST protocol used for SQL Data Access (as per the above).
 SPARQL, GData, and Web Services (REST and SOAP) are the wire protocols for the respective query mechanisms.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Why is it important?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What Data Source formats are supported?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How is Database Independence Achieved?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I bind data from supported data sources to Ajax controls?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">System Requirements</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> GUI Aspect</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Data Access</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ToBeDone">ToBeDone</ulink></para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryMarketing">CategoryMarketing</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryToBeDone">CategoryToBeDone</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>