<docbook><section><title>PressReleaseOat</title><title> OpenLink Releases Database-Aware Toolkit for AJAX</title> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Releases Database-Aware Toolkit for AJAX
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">New Open-Source Toolkit simplifies development of Database Independent Rich Internet Applications.</bridgehead>
<para>Burlington, MA.
 Thursday, May 18, 2006 - <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software, Inc., technology leader in the development and deployment of secure, high-performance universal data-access middleware, announces the immediate availability of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> AJAX Toolkit, &quot;OAT&quot;.</para>
<para>OAT enables development of Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) based on the Asynchronous <ulink url="JavaScript">JavaScript</ulink> and XML (AJAX) paradigm.
 The toolkit also includes a database-independent data-access layer called <emphasis>AJAX Database Connectivity,</emphasis> facilitating the creation of database-independent AJAX utilities.
 Thus, it is now possible for developers and power-users to bind user interface widgets in a browser to XML for Analysis (XMLA), ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE DB accessible data sources.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Leadership Inspiring an Industry</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Rich Internet Applications has emerged in recent times as a much desired paradigm for application developers at all levels.
 This desirability will ultimately be challenged without appropriate handling of the oft-overlooked matter of database connectivity.
 To date, AJAX has quite successfully demonstrated the potential of RIAs, without much clarity on the database connectivity front.
 That pretty much ends today,&quot; said Kingsley Idehen, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software&#39;s President &amp; CEO.</para>
<para>&quot;As time-tested technology leaders in the database-connectivity middleware space, we took it upon ourselves to equip AJAX with the missing data-access layer.
 In addition, we have also developed a very sophisticated collection of data-aware UI controls as part of a core AJAX engine to enhance developer productivity.
 It is now possible for anyone to develop and deploy AJAX-based applications without lock-in at the back-end database, underlying data-access mechanism, or host or client operating system levels, without compromising the basic purity of the RIA paradigm,&quot; he added.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">New Generation Server Architecture for Next Generation of Data Web Solutions</bridgehead>
<para>To facilitate rapid development of Rich Internet Applications, the toolkit comprises several parts:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>User Interface Widgets and Controls </listitem>
<listitem>Event Management </listitem>
<listitem>DOM Manipulation (including data binding) </listitem>
<listitem>Cryptography </listitem>
<listitem>XML for Analysis (XML/A) for Database Connectivity over HTTP </listitem>
<listitem>Demonstration applications such as a Visual SQL Query Builder, Data-bound Forms Designer, and Visual Database Designer</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Browser Support</bridgehead>
<para>Designed to be platform- and browser-agnostic, OAT has been tested across current versions of Mozilla, Firefox, Camino, Safari, <ulink url="WebKit">WebKit</ulink>, Internet Explorer, and Opera.
 It should work in any modern AJAX-supporting Web browser.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Extensive Industry Standard Support</bridgehead>
<para>Industry standards supported by OAT include HTTP, <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>, XML, SOAP, and XML for Analysis (XML/A).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Database Engine Support</bridgehead>
<para>DBMS-agnostic to the core, OAT supports use of any data source that is accessible via an XML/A (Tabular) Data Provider, as well as those accessible by ODBC, JDBC, OLEDB, or ADO.NET Data Providers and Drivers.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">About <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software is a privately held software company with offices in the U.S.A., United Kingdom, Nigeria, and Bulgaria.</para>
<para>It has been the leading provider and technology innovator in the universal data access middleware market since 1993, and over 10,000 companies currently use its products worldwide.</para>
<para>Additional information about the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> AJAX Toolkit can be obtained from the web site: <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/oat/">http://www.openlinksw.com/oat/</ulink>.</para>
<para>Additional information about <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software is available from the web site: <ulink url="http://www.openlinskw.com">http://www.openlinskw.com</ulink></para>
<para>Contact: Helen Heward-Mills, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software, Inc.
 Tel: 781 273 0900 Email: hmills@openlinksw.com</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryMarketing">CategoryMarketing</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>