<docbook><section><title>OATDOCIndex</title><title> OAT Documentation</title> OAT Documentation
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> OAT Conceptual Overview</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OATDOCbasicoperation">Basic Operation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCobsoletecalls">Obsolete Calls</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCevents">Event Handling Basics</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCmessaging">Messaging</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsecurity">AJAX Security mechanisms</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCNew">What is new in OAT?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> OAT API Index</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OATDOCajax2">ajax2.js</ulink>  - Provides basic Asynchronous XML call (AJAX) routines.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCanchor">anchor.js</ulink> - Enhanced Anchor tag.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCanimation">animation.js</ulink> - Implements basic animation framework, as well as some pre-defined animation effects.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCbarchart">barchart.js</ulink>  - Library for drawing Bar charts, using HTML DOM.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCbezier">bezier.js</ulink>  - Provides two mathematical functions for drawing Bezier curves.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcalendar">calendar.js</ulink>  - Displays a calendar for date picking.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcolor">color.js</ulink>  - Displays a color picker.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcombobox">combobox.js</ulink>  - Creates a combobox, an enhanced select which allows richer options.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcombobutton">combobutton.js</ulink>  - Creates a multifunctional button, which enables user to specify a callback action to be performed when it is clicked.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcombolist">combolist.js</ulink>  - Creates a combolist, select with additional possibility of direct user input.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCconnection">connection.js</ulink>  - Connection object for data access.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCcrypto">crypto.js</ulink>  - Provides cryptographic (hashing) functions.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdatasource">datasource.js</ulink>  - An Ajax Database Connectivity (ADBC) layer.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdav">dav.js</ulink>  - Displays a <ulink url="WebDavBrowser">WebDavBrowser</ulink> window for file picking/opening/saving.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdialog">dialog.js</ulink>  - Simple wrapper for ok/cancel dialog, that can contain any data.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdimmer">dimmer.js</ulink>  - Shows an object while dimming others, i.e., a Lightbox effect.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdock">dock.js</ulink>  - Creates a draggable system of docking elements, grouped into columns.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCdrag">drag.js</ulink>  - Provides dragging (moving) capability for any DOM node.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCfisheye">fisheye.js</ulink>  - Creates Mac-like dock.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCfresnel">fresnel.js</ulink>  - Fresnel Lens RDF Processor.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCghostdrag">ghostdrag.js</ulink>  - Provides drag&#39;n&#39;drop functionality.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCgraphsvg">graphsvg.js</ulink>  - SVG-based RDF Graph viewer.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCgrid">grid.js</ulink>  - Advanced grid (table) control.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCinstant">instant.js</ulink>  - Provides pop-up functionality to any element.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCjson">json.js</ulink>  - Implements two crucial JSON functions - parse and stringify.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCkeyboard">keyboard.js</ulink>  - Keyboard events and shortcut handling.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOClayers">layers.js</ulink>  - Generic z-index manager.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOClinechart">linechart.js</ulink>  - Library for drawing Line charts, using SVG.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCloader">loader.js</ulink>  - This is the basic library.
 Can be considered a toolkit on its own, as it provides many useful functions and shortcuts.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCmap">map.js</ulink>  - Abstract API atop various mapping providers.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCmenu">menu.js</ulink>  - Pop-up menu control.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCn3">n3.js</ulink>  - N3/Turtle parser.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCnotify">notify.js</ulink>  - Provides API for informative notification boxes.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCpanelbar">panelbar.js</ulink>  - Panelbar widget (like mozilla sidebar).
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCpiechart">piechart.js</ulink>  - Library for drawing Pie charts, using SVG.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCpivot">pivot.js</ulink>  - Advanced interactive Pivot table.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCquickedit">quickedit.js</ulink>  - Provides edit-in-place functionality.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrdf">rdf.js</ulink>  - RDF/XML parser.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrdfbrowser">rdfbrowser.js</ulink>  - Multi-purpose RDF Browser.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrdfstore">rdfstore.js</ulink>  - Client-side RDF store.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrdftabs">rdftabs.js</ulink>  - Tabs API for OAT RDF applications.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCresize">resize.js</ulink>  - Provides resizing capability for any DOM node.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrotator">rotator.js</ulink>  - Creates a set of &#39;rotating&#39; elements, which are cyclically displayed in an infinite fashion (1, 2, 3, 1, 2 ...).
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCrssreader">rssreader.js</ulink>  - RSS Feed reader supporting both RSS and RDF feeds.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsimplefx">simplefx.js</ulink>  - Simple eye-candy effects: shadows, rounding etc.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsoap">soap.js</ulink>  - Provides basic asynchronous XML call (AJAX) routines for use with SOAP requests.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsparqline">sparqline.js</ulink>  - Library for drawing Sparklines using SVG.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsqlquery">sqlquery.js</ulink>  - SQL Query manipulation library.
 This is an incomplete library, thus without doc.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCstatistics">statistics.js</ulink>  - Elementary statistic functions.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCsvg">svg.js</ulink>  - SVG helper provides simplified way of SVG elements creation.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCtab">tab.js</ulink>  - Provides tab functionality.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCtagcloud">tagcloud.js</ulink>  - Displays a &quot;Tag Cloud&quot;, visually enhanced set of links.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCticker">ticker.js</ulink>  - Slowly appearing and disappearing text.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCtimeline">timeline.js</ulink>  - Draggable timeline.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCtoolbar">toolbar.js</ulink>  - Basic Toolbar control.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCtree">tree.js</ulink>  - Convertsultag into interactive tree.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCupload">upload.js</ulink>  - Creates form with variable number of upload slots.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCvalidation">validation.js</ulink>  - Creates restricted input controls.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCwin">win.js</ulink>  - Creates windows.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCws">ws.js</ulink>  - Web Services (WSDL) interface.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCxml">xml.js</ulink>  - Parses a string of XML data and returns a document object.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OATDOCxmla">xmla.js</ulink> - XML for Analysis (XMLA) methods.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>