<docbook><section><title>ApplyMTLic6Unix</title><para> </para>
<title> Apply License Files to Multi-Tier Release 6.x, on Unix</title> Apply License Files to Multi-Tier Release 6.x, on Unix
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Navigate to the root directory of your OpenLink installation, where you find openlink.sh and openlink.csh. </listitem>
<listitem>Set the OpenLink environment by running the appropriate script for your shell.
 The following will work in most environments, but your required command may differ -- 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> sh, bash, zsh and related </entry><entry> . ./openlink.sh </entry></row>
<row><entry> ksh and related </entry><entry> source ./openlink.sh </entry></row>
<row><entry> csh, tcsh and related </entry><entry> source ./openlink.csh </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
  </listitem>
<listitem>Execute these commands -- <programlisting>cd bin
./oplmgr +stop
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Retrieve your new OpenLink license file(s) from an email or <ulink url="ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS Briefcase</ulink>. </listitem>
<listitem>Use binary ftp to transfer the new license file(s) to the Unix box, if required. </listitem>
<listitem>Place the new license file(s) in the /bin/ sub-directory of the OpenLink installation, replacing any same-named file(s). </listitem>
<listitem>Use the echo command to check the value of the the OPL_LICENSE_DIR environment variable.
 It should have been set by the openlink.sh script, above.
 If necessary, set and export this variable to include this directory.
 For example: <programlisting>% echo $OPL_LICENSE_DIR

% export OPL_LICENSE_DIR=/usr/openlink/bin:$OPL_LICENSE_DIR
</programlisting><emphasis>Note - you may set the OPL_LICENSE_DIR to target any directory(ies), as any PATH variable; all license file(s) must be found within.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Execute this command to stop the running Request Broker <programlisting>./oplshut -fy
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Wait for the Broker (oplrqb), the Admin Asst (www_sv), and any Agent (ora8_mv, inf9_sv, etc.) processes to terminate.
 You may wish to kill any which linger more than a few minutes (NOTE - users may lose some work if you do so).
 Then, execute the following commands to start the License Manager with the new license, and restart the Request Broker: <programlisting>./oplmgr +start
./oplrqb
</programlisting>Your Broker start command may differ -- e.g., you may want to start in &quot;Debug Mode&quot; and test connections with the new license, to make sure all is as expected ? <programlisting>./oplrqb -dv
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>