<docbook><section><title>ApplyVIRTLic5Mac</title><para> </para>
<title> Apply License Files for Virtuoso Releases 5.x, 6.x, and 7.x, on Mac OS X</title> Apply License Files for Virtuoso Releases 5.x, 6.x, and 7.x, on Mac OS X
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><emphasis><emphasis>Note: </emphasis> You must be logged in as a user with Administrator privileges.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Locate your new license file in your email or <ulink url="ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS Briefcase</ulink>, and note its name.
 (For Virtuoso, this will be virtuoso.lic.) </listitem>
<listitem>Open a Finder window, and drill down to <emphasis>Macintosh HD</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Library</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Application Support</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>openlink</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>bin</emphasis>. <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>In this directory, locate any existing file by the same name as your new license file.
 Generally, this can simply be discarded, but you can keep it if you like; simply move it to a different location (such as your Desktop) or rename it (e.g., virtuoso.lic.2013-03-21.bak).
 Once the new license is confirmed to work, it&#39;s usually best to discard the expired and/or unused license files, to avoid future confusion. </listitem>
<listitem>Drag your new license file from your email or <ulink url="ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS Briefcase</ulink> to this directory, replacing any existing file by the same name.
  </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Launch <emphasis>Terminal.app</emphasis> (found in /Applications/Utilities/). </listitem>
<listitem>Execute these three commands (you can just copy-and-paste), and provide your Mac OS X user password when prompted -- <programlisting>cd &quot;/Library/Application Support/openlink/bin&quot;
sudo ./oplmgr +stop
sudo ./oplmgr +start
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Start Virtuoso as normal. <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>If license errors are seen in the log file (virtuoso.log, by default), reboot, and test again.
  </listitem>
<listitem>If errors persist, please <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">log a Support Case</ulink>.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>