<docbook><section><title>ApplySTLic6Unix</title><title> Apply Release 6.x Single-Tier License Files on Unix</title> Apply Release 6.x Single-Tier License Files on Unix
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For best results, quit all ODBC client applications and administrative tools to start this process, and do not relaunch any of them until instructed to test your connection. </listitem>
<listitem>Use the bash or sh command to open a bash or Bourne shell.
 (Other shells may be used, but vary widely, so any or all of the following steps may need adjustment.) </listitem>
<listitem>Retrieve your new OpenLink license file from an email or <ulink url="ODSBriefcaseLicenseStorage">ODS briefcase</ulink>. </listitem>
<listitem>Use binary ftp to transfer the new license to the Unix box, if required. </listitem>
<listitem>Replace any existing license file with the new, or place the new license in your desired location.
 We generally recommend this location be the bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation, or /etc/oplmgr/. </listitem>
<listitem>cd into the root of your OpenLink installation. </listitem>
<listitem>Check the openlink.sh and openlink.csh scripts, for their setting of the OPL_LICENSE_DIR environment variable.
 If necessary, adjust this to include the directory holding the new license file.
</listitem>
<listitem>Execute this command: <programlisting>. ./openlink.sh
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>cd into the bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation. </listitem>
<listitem>Execute these commands: <programlisting>./oplmgr +stop
./oplmgr +start
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Test your connection with iodbctest, the HTTP-based <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Administrator, or any other ODBC client application. <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>If license errors come up, reboot, and test again.
  </listitem>
<listitem>If errors persist, please <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">log a Support Case</ulink>.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>