<docbook><section><title>DataSpacesBulletin-2009-06</title><para> </para>
<title> DataSpaces, 2009-06</title> DataSpaces, 2009-06
<para>A monthly newsletter dedicated to the promotion of best practices  and education in the data access and integration communities.</para><para>Brought to you by the team at OpenLink Software</para><para>June 2009</para><para>You can read this newsletter online, if you prefer --</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> All long links are provided in full-length and in bit.ly shortened form, for your convenience.
 Please use either, as you prefer.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">News &amp; Announcements</bridgehead>
 <bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Virtuoso 6.0 Cluster Edition Released</bridgehead>
<para> Virtuoso 6.0 Cluster Edition is now available as an advance preview to our friends in the Linked Data Web community and other interested parties.
 Virtuoso 6.0 Cluster Edition contains enhancements for large RDF data set hosting as well as built-in Faceted Browsing, Entity Rank, and Transitive Sponging functionality.
 Contact OpenLink Software for additional information.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="mailto:technical.support@openlinksw.com"> Virtuoso 6.0 Cluster Edition</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">MusicBrainz EC2 EMI Released</bridgehead>
<para> Musicbrainz joins, DBpedia, and Bio2Rdf in EC2 cloud.</para>
<para>MusicBrainz is a comprehensive, community-oriented metadatabase.
 It contains information about artists, album titles, track titles, track lengths, and so forth.
 You can access information pertaining to music by browsing the MusicBrainz site, or you can access it using various client applications.
 Better still, you can instantiate your own MusicBrainz instance in the cloud!</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">OpenLink Data Explorer Extension for Firefox, v0.25</bridgehead>
<para> ODEE is a browser-hosted client that uses REST-based &quot;RDFizer&quot; Proxy Services to produce RDF Linked Data from Web information resources.
 By default, ODEE is bound to a Virtuoso Sponger service provided and hosted by OpenLink Software.
 The Virtuoso Sponger is similar to an ODBC or JDBC Driver Manager, in that it connects client applications to one or more RDF Data Providers (also known as Sponger Cartridges).
 More than 30 such Cartridges are active on the OpenLink-hosted service, offering live, RDFized-on-the-fly versions of pages from Amazon, Bugzilla, eBay, Flickr, MusicBrainz, Yahoo! Finance, Twitter, and others, with still more on the way.</para>
<para>The very latest release of the OpenLink Data Explorer extension for Firefox is available at:</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Developer Resources</bridgehead>
 <bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Virtuoso 5.0.10 (Open Source Edition)</bridgehead>
<para> VOS 5.0.10 is now out on Sourceforge, with updates to the main database engine, HTTP server, Sponger and cartridges, support for <ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink> and <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/void/">VoID</ulink>, and much more.</para>
<para>       </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Deploying Linked Data</bridgehead>
<para> This document describes the process of deploying Linked Data on the existing Web.
 It discusses some of the difficulties faced in exposing RDF data and in bridging the &quot;Semantic Data-Web&quot; and the traditional &quot;Document Web.&quot;</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Tech Tricks &amp; Tips - Little Bird Edition</bridgehead>
 <para>Last month the team announced OpenLink Tech Tweets.
 If you have not had the opportunity to follow the ensuing high-tech tweet-fest, I&#39;ll happily share what a  &quot;little bird&quot; told me....</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">DBpedia ++</bridgehead>
<para> Did you know that DBpedia is powered by Virtuoso 5.0? This joint project offered up by OpenLink Software and two German universities has until recently served as the most notable front-end interface to a federated, Web-based OODBMS.
 OpenLink Software has now launched a veritable DBpedia++.
 LOD is billed as the bigger brother to DBpedia.
 LOD contains DBpedia, Freebase, MusicBrainz, Uniprot, Bio2Rdf, dbtune, NeuroCommons, PingTheSemanticWeb, and more.
 Add Yago, UMBEL, OpenCyc and reasoning to the LOD equation, and th quality of your search results and data meshes increases exponentially.</para>
<para>   </para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"><ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink></bridgehead>
<para> OpenLink Virtuoso now provides a solution to trust and privacy issues surrounding Linked Data.
 Virtuoso&#39;s new <ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink> support uses SPARQL- based modifications to SSL to provide Identity-based, platform independent security.
 <ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink> solves innumerable headaches such as centralized certificate management, and it promotes the development of such things as  highly granular, policy based security.
 Learn how <ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink> can identity challenges can stop the nuisance of spam, malicious commentary, and much, much more.</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Entity Ranking</bridgehead>
<para> Entity Ranking joins Faceted Browsing as a Virtuoso 6.0 deliverable.
Entity Ranking is a visual aid that promotes identification of highly- relevant search results.
 It is the Linked Data Web equivalent of Page Rank, but it is all the more powerful, because it uses a link coefficient algorithm fueled by the relationships between the entities in the linked data search.</para>
<para>    </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">ODS-Briefcases &amp; Amazon S3 Buckets</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink has realized the final piece of its Unified Storage story.
Amazon S3 buckets now join WebDav and SQL data as resources transparently integrated into -- and exposed by -- OpenLink ODS-Briefcases.
 S3 buckets, WebDav, and SQL are all now accessible using any of several different views: OS filesystem tree, RDF graph, or relational table tuples.</para>
<para>       </para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Administrivia</bridgehead>
 <para>We hope you enjoyed receiving this issue of <ulink url="DataSpacesMonthlySupportBulletin">DataSpaces</ulink>.
If you don&#39;t want to receive future editions of this newsletter, product announcements, or other news from <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software</ulink>, please log in to our Web site and uncheck the &quot;further information&quot; box that appears on <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/main/login.htm">your User Details page</ulink>.</para>
<para>Please do not reply directly to this e-mail.
 If you have any questions or comments regarding this newsletter, please contact us through our <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Web contact form</ulink>.</para>
<para>This message is produced and distributed by </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink>10 Burlington Mall RoadSuite 265Burlington, MA 01803+1-781-273-0900</para><para> </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink> Making Technology Work for You</para>  
</section></docbook>