<docbook><section><title>DataSpacesBulletin-2008-12</title><para> </para><title>DataSpaces, 2008-12</title>DataSpaces, 2008-12
<para>A monthly newsletter dedicated to the promotion of best practices and education in the data access and integration communities</para><para>Brought to you by the team at <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software</ulink></para><para><emphasis>December 2008</emphasis></para><para> Dear OpenLink Community,</para>
<para>Last month we launched the first edition of our <ulink url="DataSpacesMonthlySupportBulletin">monthly DataSpaces newsletter</ulink>.
This month, we&#39;ve worked out some kinks and revamped the DataSpaces format.
 We hope our revisions enhance your experience.</para>
<para>November was a busy month at <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software</ulink>.</para>
<para>We released Virtuoso Open Source Edition (VOS) 5.0.9, and introduced the Virtuoso Universal Server (Cloud Edition) for Amazon EC2.
 We also made it possible for you to instantiate your own <ulink url="http://dbpedia.org/">DBpedia</ulink> instance in the Cloud.</para>
<para>We have also collected pointers to a series of articles and resources that should help you resolve two of the more common issues users have encountered with our Universal Data Access products -- acquisition and deployment of licenses.</para>
<para> </para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> News &amp; Announcements</bridgehead>
 <bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Introducing Virtuoso Universal Server (Cloud Edition) for Amazon EC2</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso Universal Server (Cloud Edition) is a pre-installed edition of Virtuoso for Amazon&#39;s EC2 Cloud platform.</para>
<para>This packaging of our flagship Universal Server offers a boatload of features and benefits for Web entrepreneurs, DBAs, Systems Integrators, Developers, and anyone else ready to establish their presence on the Linked Data Web.</para>
<para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen/?id=1489">Full story...</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Get Your Own DBpedia in the Clouds</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, you too can have your very own instance of DBpedia 3.2 in the Cloud, thanks to Virtuoso and EC2.</para>
<para>Simply instantiate your own Virtuoso EC2 AMI instance, install some special EC2 extensions (a few steps in the Conductor), and perform a &quot;restore&quot; from a backup of DBpedia in OpenLink&#39;s S3 bucket.</para>
<para>Voila! Your very own DBpedia in roughly one hour&#39;s time....</para>
<para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen/?id=1486">Full story...</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> VOS 5.0.9 Now Available</bridgehead>
<para>VOS 5.0.9 focuses on performance optimizations for the SQL engine, SPARQL engine and ODBC and JDBC drivers, and fixes to the OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS) application suite.</para>
<para>New features include: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>an Excel mime-type output option in the SPARQL endpoint; </listitem>
<listitem>triple options bif:contains and transitivity; </listitem>
<listitem>new RDF-generating cartridges for the Sponger; </listitem>
<listitem>incorporation of UMBEL lookups into Sponger cartridges; </listitem>
<listitem>support for very large HTTP client requests; </listitem>
<listitem>a sparql-auth endpoint with digest authentication; </listitem>
<listitem>initial support for the Ubiquity Firefox plugin.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>There are also bug fixes to memory leaks, SPARQL &#39;SELECT DISTINCT&#39; and various SQL query syntax handling; XHTML and JavaScript validation; and other UI fixes in the ODS application suite.</para>
<para><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VOSNews#November+5+2008">Full story...</ulink></para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Developer Resources</bridgehead>
 <para>Here are some resources for developers looking to dialogue with other developers in the Virtuoso or Linked Data Sources communities:</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Virtuoso Users List</bridgehead>
<para>All Virtuoso, all the time.
 Topics include discussion of DBpedia, SPARQL query syntax, bug reports, enhancement requests, etc.</para>
<para>You can subscribe through the list&#39;s <ulink url="https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/virtuoso-users">home page</ulink> or <ulink url="mailto:virtuoso-users-request@lists.sourceforge.net?Subject=subscribe">by sending email</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Linking-Open-Data Mailing List</bridgehead>
<para>Not specifically Virtuoso- or OpenLink-related, but with lots of obvious interesting crossover.</para>
<para>To subscribe, <ulink url="mailto:public-lod-request@w3.org?Subject=subscribe">send mail</ulink>.</para>
<para>To post, <ulink url="mailto:public-lod@w3.org">send mail</ulink> (note -- this links to a different address!).</para>
<para>Web-based documentation of W3C-hosted mailing lists, including general (un)subscription instructions, is <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/Mail/Request">also available</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Tech Tricks &amp; Tips - UDA Licensing Edition</bridgehead>
 <para>OpenLink Support has assembled a few pointers to license-related resources into our complete <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/ProductLicensingGuide">Product Licensing Guide</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Workstation Model Vs.
 Application Server Model</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink has <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#OpenLink%20License%20Models">two licensing models</ulink>.</para>
<para><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#Workstation%20Model">Workstation Model</ulink> licenses apply to architectures where single-user client machines connect to a DBMS.</para>
<para><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#Application%20Server%20Model">Application Server Model</ulink> licenses apply to architectures where each client machine is capable of supporting the DBMS connectivity needs of multiple end users at any given time.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> When is a Workstation Not a Workstation</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#Workstation">Workstations</ulink> host Desktop or Personal Editions of common end-user operating systems such as Windows, Mac OS X, or Linux.</para>
<para>Machines hosting server editions of Windows, Mac OS X, or Linux are not considered to be Workstations, even if the hardware is identical.
Machines hosting server edition operating systems are considered to be <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#Application%20Server">Application Servers</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Count Your Cores</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LicenseTerminology#Processor%20Cores">Physical processor core</ulink> counts factor into OpenLink licensing.
 Know ahead of time <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/DetectCPU">how many physical processor cores exist</ulink> in any machine that will host an OpenLink license.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Don&#39;t Forget the OpenLink License Manager</bridgehead>
<para>Still experiencing &quot;License expired&quot; or &quot;License not found&quot; errors after installing a valid license file? Do not forget to restart the License Manager that ships with OpenLink 6.0 and newer drivers.</para>
<para>The  License Manager <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/ApplyingLicenseFiles">needs to be restarted</ulink> -- with the appropriate license variable set -- before a new license will be available for use.</para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Administrivia</bridgehead>
 <para>We hope you enjoyed receiving this issue of <ulink url="DataSpacesMonthlySupportBulletin">DataSpaces</ulink>.
If you don&#39;t want to receive future editions of this newsletter, product announcements, or other news from <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software</ulink>, please log in to our Web site and uncheck the &quot;further information&quot; box that appears on <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/main/login.htm">your User Details page</ulink>.</para>
<para>Please do not reply directly to this e-mail.
 If you have any questions or comments regarding this newsletter, please contact us through our <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Web contact form</ulink>.</para>
<para>This message produced and distributed by </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink>10 Burlington Mall RoadSuite 265Burlington, MA 01803+1-781-273-0900</para><para> </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink> Making Technology Work for You</para>  
</section></docbook>