<docbook><section><title>EvaluatorHelpPage</title><title> Evaluator Start Page</title> Evaluator Start Page
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> UDA Driver Evaluators</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>All of our Data Access Drivers can be downloaded from the <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/">UDA site</ulink>.
 We also provide a <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com/solwiz/">Driver Availability Wizard</ulink> to help you find the options which suit your deployment environment.
 The Wizard cannot present every possible deployment configuration, so if you don&#39;t find something suitable, or can&#39;t decide between the options -- please <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact">contact us for assistance</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Our <ulink url="InstallationGuides">Installation Guides</ulink> provide extensive installation instructions for all UDA products.
 Each Installation Guide also provides testing information and links to product pre-requisites docs.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The UDA Wiki Web covers <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/ConfigureUDAFeatures">advanced configuration instructions</ulink> and <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/ConfigureTroubleshootDBMSsForDataAccess">native database configuration</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The UDA Wiki Web also provides links to <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UDATroubleshootingResources">troubleshooting resources and interpretation of diagnostic resources</ulink>.
 Basic error message information can also be found  in the general <ulink url="TechnicalFAQs">Technical FAQs</ulink> and <ulink url="MacFAQ">Mac FAQ</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Questions pertaining to product capabilities may be addressed using our <ulink url="ProductComparisonSheet">UDA Driver Comparison Guide</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>If you need additional assistance, feel free to open an <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online support case</ulink> or visit our <ulink url="http://boards.openlinksw.com/support/">Discussion Forums</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Virtuoso Evaluators</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The Virtuoso Universal Server and Client Connectivity Kit installers can be downloaded from the <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">Virtuoso Download Page</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Our <ulink url="InstallationGuides">Installation Guides</ulink> provide extensive installation instructions for the Universal Server and Client Connectivity Kit.
 Each Installation Guide also provides testing information and links to product pre-requisites docs.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/VirtuosoWikiWeb/">Virtuoso Wiki Web</ulink> covers a wide range of topics pertaining to Virtuoso configuration and usage.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OdsWikiWeb/">OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS)</ulink> and <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/">OpenLink AJAX Toolkit (OAT)</ulink> Wiki Webs provide additional configuration and usage information for evaluators interested in the ODS application or OAT development kit.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Our <ulink url="http://boards.openlinksw.com/support/">Discussion Forums</ulink> provides multiple forums for evaluators with questions pertaining to Virtual &amp; Native Data Management, Web Services, OpenLink Data Spaces, and the AJAX Toolkit (OAT).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>If you need additional assistance, feel free to open an <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online support case</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>