<docbook><section><title>Faq</title><title> Support Services Frequently Asked Questions</title> Support Services Frequently Asked Questions
<para> </para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Basic Questions</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What online resources do you provide?</bridgehead>
<para>We provide an array of online resources including but not limited to the <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com">documentation library</ulink>, <ulink url="EvaluatorHelpPage">Getting Started</ulink> guides, <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/opie">knowledgebase</ulink>, <ulink url="TrainingTutorials">animated tutorials</ulink>, <ulink url="Worksheets">problem identification worksheets</ulink>, and <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online support cases</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What services do you provide?</bridgehead>
<para>We provide email and Web-based support, and a variety of premium services such as phone, emergency, and onsite support.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you have specialized support options or packages?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink> to discuss the availability of phone support, after-hours support, emergency support, onsite support, and remote diagnostics.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What technical issues do you cover?</bridgehead>
<para>We provide installation, configuration, and connection support.
 We also assist in debugging stability, ODBC performance, SQL, and ODBC API problems.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What technical issues do you exclude from coverage?</bridgehead>
<para>We do not assist in database tuning, custom development, or the use of third-party applications that extends beyond use of ODBC.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How do you provide support?</bridgehead>
<para>We deliver support in a variety of means.
 Most support issues are handled through the online case system.
 However, first-tier phone and email support is available for simple installation, licensing, and connection questions.
 Premium support packages may also include extensive phone support, onsite support, or remote diagnostics.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Who provides support?</bridgehead>
<para>Our staff is comprised of individuals with extensive knowledge of data access, data migration, database administration, programming APIs, and other relevant skills.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How can I help you help me?</bridgehead>
<para>We encourage users to create one <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">open an online support case</ulink> for each incident.
 Support cases create a forum through which we can organize and track the resolution of user problems.
Additionally, we encourage users to search the <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/opie">OPIE knowledgebase</ulink> for relevant information and to use our <ulink url="Worksheets">Problem Identification Worksheets</ulink> to help expedite service.
 Finally, we provide a web-based <ulink url="http://boards.openlinksw.com/support/">Support discussion forum</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Hours of Operation</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What are your hours of operation?</bridgehead>
<para>We are available from 9:00AM to 5:30PM, relative to our offices (Burlington, MA, USA and London, UK).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do your offices close for particular holidays?</bridgehead>
<para>Our UK Office is closed on the following days: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>New Year&#39;s </listitem>
<listitem>Good Friday </listitem>
<listitem>Easter Monday </listitem>
<listitem>May Day </listitem>
<listitem>Spring Bank Holiday </listitem>
<listitem>Summer Bank Holiday </listitem>
<listitem>Christmas </listitem>
<listitem>Boxing Day</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Our US Office is closed on the following days: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>New Year&#39;s </listitem>
<listitem>Martin Luther King, Jr.
 Day </listitem>
<listitem>President&#39;s Day </listitem>
<listitem>Memorial Day </listitem>
<listitem>Independence Day </listitem>
<listitem>Labor Day </listitem>
<listitem>Thanksgiving Thursday and Friday </listitem>
<listitem>Christmas</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> License Contracts</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Is support included in my licensing fee?</bridgehead>
<para>Our standard license fee does not include Maintenance &amp; Support.
 Users must pay an additional percentage or flat fee to obtain a Maintenance &amp; Support agreement.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do I need a support contract?</bridgehead>
<para>We provide quality web-based support to all our evaluators and customers.
 However, you or your organization may choose to invest in a Maintenance &amp; Support Contract to obtain access to Phone Support, Emergency Support, and other premium services.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What benefits do Maintenance and Support contracts provide?</bridgehead>
<para>Our Maintenance &amp; Support agreements entitle users to priority support and discounts on specific upgrades.
 Maintenance &amp; Support may also entitle you to premium services such as phone support, after hours support, and so forth.
 <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Ask your Account Manager</ulink> for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How much do Maintenance and Support contracts cost?</bridgehead>
<para>Most Maintenance &amp; Support agreements cost a small percentage of the original product license fee.
 <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink> for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How long do Maintenance and Support contracts last?</bridgehead>
<para>Maintenance &amp; Support contracts last one or more years from their date of order.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How do I obtain a Maintenance and Support contract?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink> to obtain a Maintenance &amp; Support Contract.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How do I renew a Maintenance and Support contract?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink> to renew your Maintenance &amp; Support Contracts.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Product Eligibility Requirements</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide support for all existing versions of your products?</bridgehead>
<para>We may discontinue formal support for older software versions.
<ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink> to ascertain which versions of our products are current.
However, we may assist legacy users when problems are deemed resolvable.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Does my Maintenance and Support contract cover all my existing versions and installations?</bridgehead>
<para>Your Maintenance &amp; Support contract covers the specific licensed installations for which it was issued.
 Other installations are not covered.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Premium Services</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide phone support?</bridgehead>
<para>Limited phone support is provided to Maintenance &amp; Support holders.
 Extensive live assistance is a premium service.
 <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide evening or weekend support?</bridgehead>
<para>After Hours Support is a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide installation assistance?</bridgehead>
<para>Phone-based Installation Assistance is a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink> for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide per incident support?</bridgehead>
<para>Phone-based per incident support is a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide &quot;time to resolution&quot; support?</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Time to resolution&quot; support is a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Do you provide onsite support?</bridgehead>
<para>Onsite support is a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  Does you provide remote diagnostics or &quot;login&quot; support?</bridgehead>
<para>Remote diagnostics are a premium service.
 Maintenance &amp; Support contract holders should <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>  for additional information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Escalation</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What do I do, if I am not satisfied with Support?</bridgehead>
<para>Before you proceed, insure that you have opened a formal support case, for each outstanding support issue.
 Then, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>.
They will help you raise the priority of your issue.
If the problem persists, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Technical Services Manager</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  What do I do to escalate an issue?</bridgehead>
<para>Before you proceed, insure that you have opened a formal support case, for each matter that you wish to escalate.
 Then, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>.
 They will help you raise the priority of your issue.
 If the problem persists, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Technical Services Manager</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Bug Reports and Feature Requests</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How do I submit a bug report?</bridgehead>
<para>We suggest that you <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">open an online support case</ulink>.
We will recreate the bug and identify the test bed to the Development Team.
 We will receive an ETA for all valid bug reports and a development tracking number.
 Upon completion of a patch, we will receive a notification from Development that will be relayed to you, the user.
 Be advised - If you need immediate turn around on your bug report, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>.
 They can assist you in expediting the matter.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">  How do I submit a feature request?</bridgehead>
<para>We suggest that you <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">open an online support case</ulink>.
We will assess the request and forward it to the Development Team.
 We will receive an ETA for all valid requests and a development tracking number.
 Upon implementation of the request, we will receive a notification from Development will be relayed to you, the user.
 Be advised - If you need an immediate turn around on your feature request, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">contact your Account Manager</ulink>.
 They can assist you in expediting the matter.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> See Also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="MacFAQ">Mac FAQ</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="TechnicalFAQs">Technical FAQs</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>