<docbook><section><title>OpenMacIntelAppsinRosetta</title><title> Running Universal Binary Applications in Rosetta on Mac OS X</title> Running Universal Binary Applications in Rosetta on Mac OS X
<para>PowerPC software cannot run directly on Intel hardware.</para>
<para>To ease the hardware transition, Apple built a PowerPC emulator called Rosetta into the Intel version of Mac OS X &quot;Tiger&quot; (10.4.x) through &quot;Snow Leopard&quot; (10.6.x).
 It was discontinued as of Mac OS X &quot;Lion&quot; (10.7.x).</para>
<para>Rosetta works transparently, meaning whenever you launch a PowerPC-native application, it will be automatically run through the Rosetta emulator.</para>
<para>Unfortunately, Intel-native applications cannot use Rosetta to load PowerPC-native plug-ins, drivers, or similar.</para>
<para>However, PowerPC-native applications, running through Rosetta, <emphasis>are</emphasis> able to load PowerPC-native plug-ins, drivers, etc.</para>
<para>Universal Binary applications, which typically include both PowerPC-native and Intel-native executables, can be set to &quot;Open using Rosetta&quot; -- meaning, they will run as PowerPC-native instead of the usually preferred Intel-native.</para>
<para>To enable this functionality, simply select the application and press Command-I, or select <emphasis>Get Info</emphasis> from the <emphasis>File</emphasis> menu.
 The Get Info dialog includes a checkbox labeled &quot;Open using Rosetta.&quot; Tick the box, and close the window.
 From now on, whenever the application is launched, it will open in PowerPC mode, and PowerPC-native plug-ins, drivers, etc., will be available to it.</para>
<para>It is best to upgrade all components to Intel-native, because PowerPC-native applications running through Rosetta will run about 30% more slowly than Intel-native applications running on the same hardware.</para>
</section></docbook>