<docbook><section><title>OpenLinkSupportBulletin200811</title><para> </para>
<title>DataSpaces, 2008-11</title>DataSpaces, 2008-11
<para>   A monthly newsletter dedicated to the promotion of best practices      and education in the data access and integration communities.</para>
<para>            Brought to you by the team at OpenLink Software</para>
<para>                            November 2008</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">SupportWeb - Upgrade your support experience</bridgehead>
OpenLink Software is pleased to announce the launch of the new <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/"><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiOpenLink</span> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiSupportWeb</span></ulink>.
The SupportWeb comprises an extensive set of updated, revised, and brand new resources requested by evaluators and customers, to ensure that hassles associated with product selection, evaluation, licensing are a thing of the past..
 Challenges associated with HSODBC, Linked Servers, and SSIS data integration tasks are laid bare and tips, tricks, and real, workable solutions are provided to smooth the data integration experience.
 (Hint: Virtuoso!) Take advantage of the SupportWeb today to simplify and expedite resolution of all your data access needs.<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/EvaluatorHelpPage">Evaluator&#39;s Start Page</ulink> Convenient reference area for users who are new to the OpenLink experience.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/ProductComparisonSheets">Universal Data Access Drivers Comparison Guide</ulink>   A side-by-side feature comparison chart for OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier Express Edition, Single-Tier Lite Edition, and Multi-Tier Enterprise Edition drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/SupportedArchitectures">Supported Architectures</ulink>   Concept and deployment diagrams that visually depict the wide range of architectures and topologies supported by OpenLink&#39;s data-access products.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/Licensing">Product Licensing Guide</ulink>   All-new guide explaining OpenLink&#39;s licensing models.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/DetectCPU">CPU Detection Guide</ulink>   Much-needed instructions for detecting physical processor cores and differentiating physical cores from virtual cores.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/InstallationGuides">Installation Guide</ulink>   All of OpenLink&#39;s invaluable installation and configuration guides displayed in one, convenient place.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/">Universal Data Access Wiki Web</ulink>   Revised Data Access Suite documentation exposed in both OpenLink-standard and user-editable formats.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/SystemIntegratorGuide">Data Migration &amp; Integration</ulink>   Comprehensive information for users embarking on data migration or integration tasks that include technologies such as HSODBC, DG4ODBC, SSIS, and SQL Server Linked Servers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/Legacy">Legacy Support &amp; Deprecation</ulink>  Clear and concise statement of Support options for users with legacy products.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> Visit the new <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/"><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiOpenLink</span> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiSupportWeb</span></ulink> today to take advantage of all its new features.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">You, YODA, and the Semantic Web</bridgehead>
OpenLink President and CEO Kingsley Idehen explains why the so-called Semantic Web is really about &quot;You.&quot; Or is it YODA? -- &quot;You-Oriented Data Access.&quot; Read <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen/?id=1474">this humorous and timely piece</ulink> on advances in the approaching &quot;Web 3.0&quot; or &quot;Linked Data Web,&quot; and learn why it really  <emphasis>is</emphasis> all about you:<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Get your Personal URI - Free</bridgehead>
<para>Ready to jump on the Web 3.0 bandwagon? If you are, you need to get your own, personal URI.
 Don&#39;t know what that is? Don&#39;t worry.
OpenLink Product Support explains all in its informative <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/LinkedDataStart">Linked Data Beginner&#39;s Page</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Virtuoso 5.0.9 on the horizon</bridgehead>
<para>Stay tuned for the imminent release of <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/">Virtuoso Universal Server</ulink> version 5.0.9, the premier Master Data Management Tool.</para>
<span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:center                         OpenLink Software, Inc.
                      Making Technology Work for You </span> </section></docbook>