<docbook><section><title>WorksheetMTperformance</title><title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Multi-Tier Driver, System Performance</title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Multi-Tier Driver, System Performance
<para>Use this form to gather information which will help us better assist you.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> System Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What product are you using?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the names of the files that you downloaded?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the product version and release number?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the Operating System containing your Multi-Tier client components?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for Linux and other Unix-like machines.
   </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the Operating System containing your Multi-Tier server components?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for Linux and other Unix-like machines.
 </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Description</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Has this problem always existed?    </listitem>
<listitem>If this problem is new, describe any changes to the database, network, and machines in this architecture.
     </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem associated with heavy load?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide Data Source Name Connection Parameters.
 </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Server Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What are your database server&#39;s kernel tuning parameters?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database server&#39;s patch level?    </listitem>
<listitem>Did you install your server components on the database native server?    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>If you answered yes to the above, could you install your server components on a machine that contains the database native client? This could be the same machine or a gateway.
 (Routing connections through the database native client may speed performance in problem environments.)    </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>What is your database native client version?    </listitem>
<listitem>Are you establishing a connection to Progress? Is it running in sockets or shared memory?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Isolation</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Is the problem specific to one client machine?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem specific to one client application?    </listitem>
<listitem>Do other ODBC drivers outperform <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC drivers?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this a LAN, MAN, WAN, or VPN?    </listitem>
<listitem>Can you quantify the amount of data that is being returned?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the data types of the data being returned?    </listitem>
<listitem>Have you checked the Defer Fetching of Long Data checkbox (for binary data only)    </listitem>
<listitem>Do you know the cursor modality your application employs?    </listitem>
<listitem>Set your Data Source&#39;s Rowbuffer Size to 1.
 Test.
 Set your Rowbuffer Size to 99.
 Test.
 Do you see any difference in performance?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Other Considerations</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s Single-Tier drivers outperform Multi-Tier drivers.
 Could you switch?    </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s latest drivers have faster communications layers.
 If you have an older driver, can you upgrade?    </listitem>
<listitem>Performance problems may stem from the way you have structured your tables.
 Can you provide a table schema for a problem table?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategorySupport">CategorySupport</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWorksheet">CategoryWorksheet</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryUDA">CategoryUDA</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>