<docbook><section><title>WorksheetSTperformance</title><title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Single-Tier Driver, System Performance</title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Single-Tier Driver, System Performance
<para> Use this form to gather information which will help us better assist you.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> System Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What product are you using?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the names of the files that you downloaded?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the product version and release number?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the client operating system?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for unix and linux clients.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Description</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Has this problem always existed?    </listitem>
<listitem>If this problem is new, describe any changes to the database, database client, network and machines in this architecture.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem associated with heavy load.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Provide Data Source Name Connection Parameters.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What are your database server&#39;s kernel tuning parameters?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database server&#39;s patch level?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Isolation</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Is this problem specific to one client machine?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem specific to one client application?    </listitem>
<listitem>Do other ODBC drivers outperform <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC drivers?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this a LAN/MAN/WAN?    </listitem>
<listitem>Can you quantify the amount of data that is being returned?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the data types of the data being returned?    </listitem>
<listitem>Have you checked the Defer Fetching of Long Data checkbox? (For binary data only)    </listitem>
<listitem>Do you know what cursor modality your application employs?    </listitem>
<listitem>Set your Data Source&#39;s Rowbuffer Size to 1.
 Test.
 Set your Rowbuffer Size to 99.
 Test.
 Do you see any difference in performance?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Other Considerations</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s latest drivers have faster communications layers.
 If you have an older driver, can you upgrade?        * Performance problems may stem from the way you have structured your tables.
 Can you provide a table schema for a problem table?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>