<docbook><section><title>WorksheetMTstability</title><title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Multi-Tier Driver, System Stability</title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Multi-Tier Driver, System Stability
<para> Use this form to gather information which will help us better assist you.
 If possible, follow up with <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/GeneratingClientsideODBCTracesAllDrivers">a client-side ODBC trace</ulink> and the <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/GeneratingRequestBrokerTraces">Request Broker Log</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> System Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What product are you using?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the names of the files that you downloaded?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the product version and release number?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the o/s containing your Multi-Tier client components?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for unix and linux machines.
   </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the o/s containing your Multi-Tier server components?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for unix and linux machines.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Description</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Provide the text of any error message you experience.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Describe any problem that does not produce error text.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Describe the steps that you take to reproduce the problem.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Provide Data Source Name Connection Parameters.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Client Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What are your client communications settings?    </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">  Server Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Have you set <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink> in your server&#39;s oplrqb.ini file? Provide your server&#39;s oplrqb.ini file for verification.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Have the latest, relevant patches been applied to your database and server operating system?    </listitem>
<listitem>List your kernel tuning parameters.
 Unix users provide the output of ulimit -a for verification.
   </listitem>
<listitem>What is your machine&#39;s physical memory?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is your machine&#39;s processor count?    </listitem>
<listitem>Did you install your server components on the database native server?    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>If not, did you install your server components on a machine containing the database native client?    </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>What is your database native client version?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Isolation</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Is this a consistent problem or a problem that has occured after a period of stability?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is the problem associated with heavy load? If so, please describe.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Does the problem produce core files, stack traces, Dr.
 Watsons, or Progress protraces? If so, please submit the relevant file or Watson error.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Is the problem associated with a recent database or o/s patch or upgrade?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is the problem associated with the implementation of anti-virus software?    </listitem>
<listitem>Does the problem correspond with errors in the database native error log? Please provide the log for evidence.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Does the database native transaction monitor show anomalous activity?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is the problem associated with an excess number of <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> database agent processes?    </listitem>
<listitem>Does ps -ef show more <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> agent processes than oplshut -s ?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>