<docbook><section><title>CategoryCategory</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> What&#39;s It?</bridgehead>
<para>This page is referenced by all category pages.
 Click Ref-by to list all of them.
 To learn more about idea of categories, read <ulink url="http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?CategoryCategory">http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?CategoryCategory</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Categorization of Wiki Content</bridgehead>
<para>All pages should be tagged with the categories corresponding to the products (UDA, Virtuoso, iODBC), functionality realms (Blog, Gallery, Admin), subsystems (SPARQL, SQL, RDF), etc., being discussed.</para>
<para>Additionally, the function of the document relative to the subject matter (e.g., Spec, Documentation, Plan) must be indicated.</para>
<para>This forms a matrix of function x product, where multiple products and functions may sometimes be covered by one page.
 Thus, searching for `<ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryQAReport">CategoryQAReport</ulink>` should deliver a list of (only) Virtuoso-related QA Reports.</para>
<para>Create new categories as appropriate -- but please always keep the Category Word singular (i.e., <ulink url="CategoryModule">CategoryModule</ulink> not <ulink url="CategoryModules">CategoryModules</ulink>; <ulink url="CategoryCategory">CategoryCategory</ulink> not <ulink url="CategoryCategories">CategoryCategories</ulink>).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Document Function</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySpec">CategorySpec</ulink>        </entry><entry>Any specification, no matter the level of detail covered. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPlan">CategoryPlan</ulink>        </entry><entry>Any schedule, roadmap, project plan, task assignment document or similar. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryQA">CategoryQA</ulink>          </entry><entry>Any QA checklist or report.  QA Reports get their own. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryQAReport">CategoryQAReport</ulink>   </entry><entry>Any QA checklist or report.  QA Reports get their own. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCompetition">CategoryCompetition</ulink> </entry><entry>Any review or commentary or list of competitive products.  The paper should be categorized additionally with the Virtuoso or UDA product categories to which the competition applies.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink>    </entry><entry>Anything that documents a finished piece of functionality.  Is not applied to the actual wiki version of the documentation since this is outside of the main cluster. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryReport">CategoryReport</ulink>      </entry><entry>Any report concerning work performed (except Weekly and QA Reports)  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMarketing">CategoryMarketing</ulink>   </entry><entry>Any planned or actual marketing material, press material or such. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryProduct">CategoryProduct</ulink>     </entry><entry>Any page that is an index of pages related to a particular product. One page of <ulink url="CategoryProduct">CategoryProduct</ulink> sort per every product listed in Bugzilla, but no more. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryModule">CategoryModule</ulink>      </entry><entry>Any page that is an index of pages related to a particular module of a big program. One page of <ulink url="CategoryModule">CategoryModule</ulink> sort per every module of every product listed in Bugzilla, but no more. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Document Subject Matter</bridgehead>
<para>The subject matter of the spec/report/document is marked by one or more of the following:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUDA">CategoryUDA</ulink>           </entry><entry>General wiki nodes pertaining to product, be they documentation, meeting minutes, specs, QA, or whatever. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink>      </entry><entry>General documents touching on all aspects of the product or a large section of the product.  Applies to  general roadmaps or general marketing material. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCaseStudy">CategoryCaseStudy</ulink>     </entry><entry>Customer Case Studies </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCustomers">CategoryCustomers</ulink>     </entry><entry>New and Existing Customers </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDET">CategoryDET</ulink>           </entry><entry>DAV extension type -  Occurs together with the application category to which this applies, e.g. <ulink url="CategoryBlog">CategoryBlog</ulink>. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDAV">CategoryDAV</ulink>           </entry><entry>DAV, see <ulink url="VirtWebDAV">VirtWebDAV</ulink> for a brief list of documents. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataCenter">CategoryDataCenter</ulink>    </entry><entry>Application clustering. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryLeads">CategoryLeads</ulink>         </entry><entry>Business Development Target </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryProspects">CategoryProspects</ulink>     </entry><entry>Business Development Opportunity </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySocialNetwork">CategorySocialNetwork</ulink> </entry><entry>Any SN documents. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySuspects">CategorySuspects</ulink>      </entry><entry>Business Development Potential </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryTagging">CategoryTagging</ulink>       </entry><entry>Automatic or explicit tagging of content. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryWebAd">CategoryWebAd</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> applications as advertising platforms, unobtrusive advertising, ad booking, any discussion of advertising support on <ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> apps. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryENews">CategoryENews</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: eNews  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOMail">CategoryOMail</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: oMail </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODrive">CategoryODrive</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: oDrive </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryBlog">CategoryBlog</ulink>          </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: Blog  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOWiki">CategoryOWiki</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: oWiki </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODSBookmarks">CategoryODSBookmarks</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: ODS-Bookmarks </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryConductor">CategoryConductor</ulink>     </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: Conductor </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryBandoneon">CategoryBandoneon</ulink>     </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLinkVirtuoso">OpenLinkVirtuoso</ulink> application: Bandoneon </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryWA">CategoryWA</ulink>            </entry><entry>Web Applications - all product subsystem/application categories from Bugzilla. See lists in <ulink url="CategoryProduct">CategoryProduct</ulink>. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryObsolete">CategoryObsolete</ulink>            </entry><entry>Obsolete information - specs, mockups, documentation rendered obsolete by new development or other changed circumstance. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Department</bridgehead>
 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySupport">CategorySupport</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Technical Support </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMarketing">CategoryMarketing</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Marketing </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySales">CategorySales</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Sales </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySoftwareDevelopment">CategorySoftwareDevelopment</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software Development </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryProfessionalService">CategoryProfessionalService</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Professional Services </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> KBASE Document Subject Matter</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> <emphasis>OPIE and the KBASE</emphasis>                 </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOPIE">CategoryOPIE</ulink>              </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Product Information Expert </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryEmployeeCenter">CategoryEmployeeCenter</ulink>  </entry><entry>OPIE-resident staff pages, for Support Case handling and otherwise </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product</emphasis>                 </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCompetitiveAdvantage">CategoryCompetitiveAdvantage</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product competive advantages </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryConfiguration">CategoryConfiguration</ulink>               </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product configuration </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryConfigFile">CategoryConfigFile</ulink>                 </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product configuration files, i.e., openlink.sh, openlink.ini, oplrqb.ini, and so on </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDemoApplication">CategoryDemoApplication</ulink>            </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product demos, e.g., iodbctest (formerly odbctest), JDBC applets and applications </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDownload">CategoryDownload</ulink>                   </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product download process </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryEnvironmentVariable">CategoryEnvironmentVariable</ulink>        </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product environment variables </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFileFormat">CategoryFileFormat</ulink>                 </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product file formats </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFileName">CategoryFileName</ulink>                   </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product file names </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryProductCapability">CategoryProductCapability</ulink>         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product features and functionality </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryGlossary">CategoryGlossary</ulink>                    </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product glossary </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCompatibility">CategoryCompatibility</ulink>               </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product (in)compatibility -- Up- and down-ward vs database and operating system versions; and among various <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> components and versions </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryInstallation">CategoryInstallation</ulink>                </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product installation </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryLicensing">CategoryLicensing</ulink>                   </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product licenses </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPrerequisite">CategoryPrerequisite</ulink>               </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product prerequisites </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUninstall">CategoryUninstall</ulink>                  </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product removal  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryService">CategoryService</ulink>                    </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product services that need to be started and maintained (e.g., Request Broker, Broker Admin Assistant, License Manager, etc.)  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUpgrade">CategoryUpgrade</ulink>                    </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> product upgrades </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> partners</emphasis>                </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPartner">CategoryPartner</ulink>                    </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> business partners </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryP21">CategoryP21</ulink>                         </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Partner: Prophet 21, a/k/a P21, Progress DBMS reseller, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> OEM </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMFGPRO">CategoryMFGPRO</ulink>                      </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Partner: MFGPRO, Progress DBMS reseller, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> OEM </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPS">CategoryPS</ulink>                          </entry><entry><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Professional Services </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>DBMS Engines</emphasis>                     </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryIngres">CategoryIngres</ulink>                      </entry><entry>DBMS: CA Ingres and <ulink url="OpenIngres">OpenIngres</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFileMaker">CategoryFileMaker</ulink>                   </entry><entry>DBMS: <ulink url="FileMaker">FileMaker</ulink> Pro </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFoxPro">CategoryFoxPro</ulink>                      </entry><entry>DBMS: <ulink url="FoxPro">FoxPro</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDB2">CategoryDB2</ulink>                         </entry><entry>DBMS: IBM DB2 </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryInformix">CategoryInformix</ulink>                    </entry><entry>DBMS: IBM Informix </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryAccess">CategoryAccess</ulink>                      </entry><entry>DBMS: Microsoft Access </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMSSQLServer">CategoryMSSQLServer</ulink>                 </entry><entry>DBMS: Microsoft SQL Server </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMySQL">CategoryMySQL</ulink>                       </entry><entry>DBMS: <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOracle">CategoryOracle</ulink>                      </entry><entry>DBMS: Oracle </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOtherDatabase">CategoryOtherDatabase</ulink>              </entry><entry>DBMS: Databases for which <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> does not build specific database agents, e.g., DBASE, Paradox, Btrieve, MS Access, <ulink url="FileMaker">FileMaker</ulink> Pro, etc. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPostgreSQL">CategoryPostgreSQL</ulink>                  </entry><entry>DBMS: <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryProgress">CategoryProgress</ulink>                    </entry><entry>DBMS: Progress  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySybase">CategorySybase</ulink>                      </entry><entry>DBMS: Sybase  </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Client applications</emphasis>              </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryApplication">CategoryApplication</ulink>                </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Any commercial client application (e.g., Crystal Reports, Microsoft Access) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryBrio">CategoryBrio</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Brio </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryBusinessObjects">CategoryBusinessObjects</ulink>             </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Business Objects </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryImpromptu">CategoryImpromptu</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Cognos Impromptu </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryColdFusion">CategoryColdFusion</ulink>                  </entry><entry>Client Application (JDBC): <ulink url="ColdFusion">ColdFusion</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCrystalReports">CategoryCrystalReports</ulink>              </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Crystal Reports </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDreamWeaver">CategoryDreamWeaver</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): <ulink url="DreamWeaver">DreamWeaver</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFileMaker">CategoryFileMaker</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): <ulink url="FileMaker">FileMaker</ulink> Pro </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryAccess">CategoryAccess</ulink>                      </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Microsoft Access </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryExcel">CategoryExcel</ulink>                       </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Microsoft Excel and MSQUERY </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMSProject">CategoryMSProject</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Microsoft Project </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDTSWizard">CategoryDTSWizard</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (OLE DB): Microsoft SQL Server Data Transformation Services (DTS)  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryLinkedServer">CategoryLinkedServer</ulink>               </entry><entry>Client Application (OLE DB): Microsoft SQL Server Linked Servers </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOdbctest">CategoryOdbctest</ulink>                    </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> iodbctest (formerly odbctest) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCBench">CategoryJDBCBench</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (JDBC): <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> JDBC Bench  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBCBench">CategoryODBCBench</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Bench </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBCScan">CategoryODBCScan</ulink>                    </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Scan </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryHSODBC">CategoryHSODBC</ulink>                      </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Oracle Heterogeneous Services for Generic Data Sources </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPowerbuilder">CategoryPowerbuilder</ulink>                </entry><entry>Client Application (ODBC): Powerbuilder </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Driver Managers</emphasis>                  </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryiODBC">CategoryiODBC</ulink>                       </entry><entry>Driver Manager (ODBC): iODBC </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUnixODBC">CategoryUnixODBC</ulink>                    </entry><entry>Driver Manager (ODBC): <ulink url="UnixODBC">UnixODBC</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Drivers</emphasis>                          </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCODBCBridge">CategoryJDBCODBCBridge</ulink>              </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Bridge for JDBC Clients, a/k/a <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBCJDBCBridge">CategoryODBCJDBCBridge</ulink>              </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> JDBC Bridge for ODBC Clients, a/k/a <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBCODBCBridge">CategoryODBCODBCBridge</ulink>              </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Bridge for ODBC Clients, a/k/a <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMultiTier">CategoryMultiTier</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Multi-Tier (all) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryRelinking">CategoryRelinking</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Multi-Tier: Relinking database agents </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySecurity">CategorySecurity</ulink>                    </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Multi-Tier: Session Rules, SSL, and other security topics </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryGenericODBCProduct">CategoryGenericODBCProduct</ulink>         </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Bridges (Single-Tier and Multi-Tier; ODBC/JDBC/OLEDB/ADO.NET Clients) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySingleTier">CategorySingleTier</ulink>                  </entry><entry>Driver: <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Single-Tier (all) </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>APIs</emphasis>                             </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDAO">CategoryDAO</ulink>                         </entry><entry>API: Microsoft Data Access Objects </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBCAPICall">CategoryODBCAPICall</ulink>                </entry><entry>API: ODBC </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Data Access Mechanisms</emphasis>           </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBC">CategoryJDBC</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: JDBC </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCType1">CategoryJDBCType1</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: JDBC Type 1 or &quot;JDBC-ODBC&quot; Bridge connectivity </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCType2">CategoryJDBCType2</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: JDBC Type 2 connectivity </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCType3">CategoryJDBCType3</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: JDBC Type 3 or &quot;DSN-Less&quot; connectivity </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJDBCType4">CategoryJDBCType4</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: JDBC Type 4 or &quot;Native&quot; connectivity </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryODBC">CategoryODBC</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOLEDB">CategoryOLEDB</ulink>                       </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: OLE DB </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUDBC">CategoryUDBC</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Data Access Mechanism: UDBC (Universal Database Connectivity, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>-proprietary, deprecated) </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Operating Systems</emphasis>                </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryTru64">CategoryTru64</ulink>                       </entry><entry>Operating system: Compaq Tru64 (now merging with <emphasis>Digital UNIX</emphasis>, also known as <emphasis>OSF</emphasis>) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataGeneral">CategoryDataGeneral</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Operating system: Data General, DG/UX </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFreeBSD">CategoryFreeBSD</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Operating system: <ulink url="FreeBSD">FreeBSD</ulink> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryHP">CategoryHP</ulink>                          </entry><entry>Operating system: HP/UX </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryAIX">CategoryAIX</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Operating system: IBM AIX </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryLinux">CategoryLinux</ulink>                       </entry><entry>Operating system: Linux (any variant) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMacClassic">CategoryMacClassic</ulink>                  </entry><entry>Operating system: Mac Classic (Mac OS 9, Mac OS 8, System 7, etc.) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMacOSX">CategoryMacOSX</ulink>                      </entry><entry>Operating system: Mac OS X (Cheetah, Puma, Jaguar, Panther, Tiger, etc.) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySCOOpenServer">CategorySCOOpenServer</ulink>               </entry><entry>Operating system: SCO <ulink url="OpenServer">OpenServer</ulink> 5.x </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySCOUnixware">CategorySCOUnixware</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Operating system: SCO Unixware 7  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryIrix">CategoryIrix</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Operating system: SGI Irix </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySolaris">CategorySolaris</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Operating system: Solaris (and Sun OS) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUnix">CategoryUnix</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Operating system: Unix (any variant) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryVMS">CategoryVMS</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Operating system: VMS and <ulink url="OpenVMS">OpenVMS</ulink> (Digital, Compaq, HP) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryWindows">CategoryWindows</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Operating system: Microsoft Windows </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Programming Languages</emphasis>            </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryC">CategoryC</ulink>                           </entry><entry>Programming Language: C </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCPP">CategoryCPP</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Programming Language: C++  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJAVA">CategoryJAVA</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Programming Language: JAVA </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryJSP">CategoryJSP</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Programming Language: JSP (Java Server Pages) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPerl">CategoryPerl</ulink>                        </entry><entry>Programming Language: PERL </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPHP">CategoryPHP</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Programming Language: PHP  </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryVB">CategoryVB</ulink>                          </entry><entry>Programming Language: Visual Basic </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryRuby">CategoryRuby</ulink>                      </entry><entry> Programming Language: Ruby </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPython">CategoryPython</ulink>                      </entry><entry> Programming Language: Python </entry></row>
<row><entry> </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Not yet sub-categorized</emphasis>          </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryAdminAssistant">CategoryAdminAssistant</ulink>             </entry><entry> <emphasis><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Multi-Tier Request Broker Admin Assistant</emphasis> and <emphasis>HTTP-based <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Administrator</emphasis> (formerly known as the <emphasis>iODBC Administrator</emphasis>) </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryAdvancedConfiguration">CategoryAdvancedConfiguration</ulink>       </entry><entry>Specialized DSN parameters such as SQL <emphasis>DBMS_NAME, OCIPrefetchRows, OCIPrefetchMemory, Multiplex sessions, Prepare Method, and so on </emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryBitFormat">CategoryBitFormat</ulink>                  </entry><entry>Processor mode (16bit, 32bit, 64bit) issues </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryClustering">CategoryClustering</ulink>                  </entry><entry>Load balancing and failover clustering </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryCursors">CategoryCursors</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Cursors </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataDirect">CategoryDataDirect</ulink>                  </entry><entry><ulink url="DataDirect">DataDirect</ulink> (and precursors Merant, Visigenic, Intersolv, etc.) products and issues </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataMigration">CategoryDataMigration</ulink>               </entry><entry>Data migration, via <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Virtuoso, Microsoft SQL Server DTS, Microsoft SQL Server Linked Servers, Oracle Heterogeneous Services, etc </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataSourceName">CategoryDataSourceName</ulink>             </entry><entry>ODBC Data Source Names </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDataType">CategoryDataType</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Data types </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDevelopment">CategoryDevelopment</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Articles of interest to developers who employ <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> technologies </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDiagnosticApplication">CategoryDiagnosticApplication</ulink>      </entry><entry>Diagnostic applications, e.g., ASNPRINT, Microsoft&#39;s ODBCTest (&quot;Gator&quot;), <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Scan, etc. </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDiagnostic">CategoryDiagnostic</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Diagnostic tips and techniques employed by <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> consultants </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDOTNET">CategoryDOTNET</ulink>                      </entry><entry>Microsoft&#39;s .NET platform </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryErrorMessage">CategoryErrorMessage</ulink>               </entry><entry>Specific error messages </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryEvidence">CategoryEvidence</ulink>                    </entry><entry>Evidence used to debug problems </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Frequently Asked Questions </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryLINQ">CategoryLINQ</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Language Integrated Query </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryNeedsAssessment">CategoryNeedsAssessment</ulink>             </entry><entry>Process that <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> consultants and evaluators embark on to identify products suitable to a solution </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryNetworking">CategoryNetworking</ulink>                  </entry><entry>TCP-related configuration and diagnostics </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryOSResource">CategoryOSResource</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Patches, upgrades, kernel tuning parameters, memory, processor count, and other operating system resources that affect <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> functionality </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryPerformance">CategoryPerformance</ulink>                 </entry><entry>Performance issues </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryRDF">CategoryRDF</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Resource Description Framework </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryRDFFramework">CategoryRDFFramework</ulink>         </entry><entry>RDF Frameworks </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategorySQL">CategorySQL</ulink>                         </entry><entry>Structured Query Language </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryStability">CategoryStability</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Stability. Topics include intermittent connection failures, intermittent query failures, timeouts, coredumps, and so on </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryStoredProcedure">CategoryStoredProcedure</ulink>            </entry><entry>Stored procedures </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryTableview">CategoryTableview</ulink>                   </entry><entry>Tableview files and configurations associated with the Progress DBMS </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryTransactionIsolationLevel">CategoryTransactionIsolationLevel</ulink>  </entry><entry>Transaction isolation levels </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryTransaction">CategoryTransaction</ulink>                </entry><entry>Database transactions </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryUnicode">CategoryUnicode</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Unicode </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryEC2">CategoryEC2</ulink>                     </entry><entry>Amazon EC2 AMIs </entry></row>
<row><entry>   *Meetings*          </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryMinutes">CategoryMinutes</ulink>                     </entry><entry> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Website</bridgehead>
<para>Currently just:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink>   </entry><entry>reference the page as something to do with the website, preferably new upcoming versions thereof </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Rendering in Wiki</bridgehead>
<para>The category name is a wiki word going to the category page.
 The category page will contain the description of the  category as given above.
 Below this is output of a search for all pages having this category, sorted by revision date descending.
 For each page is given:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Revision date </listitem>
<listitem>Wiki word  - Link to the page in question.
</listitem>
<listitem>First title, if any </listitem>
<listitem>All other categories of the page in question, each  link to the appropriate category page.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Internal Reference / Misc</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><ulink url="CategoryDatasource">CategoryDatasource</ulink>  </entry><entry>any page where the datasource attributes are listed for communal interest, tag it with this as well </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Usage</bridgehead>
<para>All authors of content  should mark any relevant recent content entered by them according to these categories.
 Weekly  reports are an exception since these can be found easily enough without.
 If the content is obsolete or otherwise of no interest it should not be marked with any category.</para>
<para> </para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryCategory">CategoryCategory</ulink> <ulink url="CategorySpec">CategorySpec</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>