<docbook><section><title>GData</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Google Data (GData) API Protocol</bridgehead>
<para>GData is a new protocol created by Google that provides the following RESTful Web Services (meaning this serves consumer and provider applications):</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Free Text (or Full Text) querying of content contained within a Data Space (an Atom-based implementation of the RSS-oriented <ulink url="OpenSearch">OpenSearch</ulink> API from Amazon) </listitem>
<listitem>Content <ulink url="CRUD">CRUD</ulink> (Create, Update, Delete) functionality including <ulink url="OptimisticConcurrency">Optimistic Concurrency</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Authentication </listitem>
<listitem>Atom 1.0 Content Syndication</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Google&#39;s Reasons for producing GData</bridgehead>
<para>Google&#39;s mission is to organize the world&#39;s information and make it universally accessible and useful.
 Making information accessible requires making it available in contexts other than a web browser.
 Thus, Google provides APIs to let client software request information outside of a browser context.</para>
<para>GData provides a general model for feeds, queries, and results.
 You can use it to send queries and updates to any service that has a GData interface.</para>
<para>Syndication is an effective and popular method for providing and aggregating content.
 GData provides a way to expand the types of content that Google can make available through syndication; in particular, it lets you use the syndication mechanism to send queries and receive query results.
 GData also lets you send data to Google, and update data that Google already has.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">References</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://code.google.com/apis/gdata/index.html#About">The Google Data API Specification</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryGlossary">CategoryGlossary</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>