<docbook><section><title>MediaWikiSIOCRef</title><para> </para>
<ulink url="">
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> MediaWiki SIOC Reference</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is it about?</bridgehead>
 By hosting Mediawiki in Virtuoso, you gain integration of your data, both in its existing wiki form, with the ability to manage Talk Pages as NNTP groups, or map the MediaWiki data to the SIOC ontology for the purpose of constructing <ulink url="SPARQL">SPARQL</ulink> queries against MediaWiki articles and discussion comments.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Why is it important?</bridgehead>
 Treating Mediawiki as a repository of semantically marked-up data allows constructing <ulink url="SPARQL">SPARQL</ulink> Queries thereby offering a powerful search feature through mapping the data to the SIOC ontology.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How can one use this feature?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>You can find a working demonstration at the following location: <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/mediawiki/">http://demo.openlinksw.com/mediawiki/</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>You can run the queries below or your own created ones using the <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/sparql">Virtuoso SPARQL query page</ulink> and you should use the following Graph(s) URI: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Virtual Graph URI: <ulink url="http://host:port/mw_v.">http://host:port/mw_v.</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>For example: <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/mw_v">http://demo.openlinksw.com/mw_v</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Note: Default Graph URI value used in the queries below is: <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/mw_v">http://demo.openlinksw.com/mw_v</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Physical Graph URI: not supported for now.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What are the Linked Data Views supported?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiSIOCRef/MediaWiki_rdf_views_script.sql">MediaWiki_rdf_views_script.sql</ulink> or view the online version <ulink url="VirtRDFViewMediaWiki">here</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Key MediaWiki to SIOC Mappings</bridgehead>
 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> MediaWiki </entry><entry> SIOC </entry><entry> Sample Value </entry></row>
<row><entry> Only 1 Wiki Instance </entry><entry> rdf:type </entry><entry> sioc:Container </entry></row>
<row><entry> Instance Type </entry><entry> rdf:type </entry><entry> sioct:Wiki</entry></row>
<row><entry> Instance  link </entry><entry> sioc:link </entry><entry> &quot;<ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/mediawiki">http://demo.openlinksw.com/mediawiki</ulink>&quot;</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiREFExample1">Dump of all <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiMediaWiki</span> articles</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiREFExample2">Dump of <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiMediaWiki</span> General Info</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiREFExample3">Dump of <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiMediaWiki</span> Users details</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Using SPARQL CONSTRUCT to Export SIOC-based RDF Data Sets</bridgehead>
 CONSTRUCT-based SPARQL queries are very useful when trying to expose RDF (via a SPARQL Endpoint) to RDF Data Set consumers that do not support SPARQL.
 In a sense, the SPARQL CONSTRUCT statements as part of a SPARQL Protocol payload deliver a Data Web (Web 3.0) Experience to Interactive-Web Clients (Web 1.0).<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="MediaWikiREFExample4">List of all registered <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiMediaWiki</span> members returned as an RDF Graph</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Reference</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFViewMediaWiki">MediaWiki Linked Data Views</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/OdsIntegrationMediaWiki">MediaWiki Installation Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="PHPBB3SIOCRef">phpBB SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="DrupalSIOCRef">Drupal SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryRDF">CategoryRDF</ulink> <ulink url="CategorySIOC">CategorySIOC</ulink> <ulink url="CategorySPARQL">CategorySPARQL</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</ulink></section></docbook>