<docbook><section><title>PressReleaseVirt507CommEd</title><para>  </para>
<title> OpenLink unleashes latest edition of Virtuoso</title> OpenLink unleashes latest edition of Virtuoso
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> A Semantic Web Technology-based solution for Enterprise Information &amp; Data Integration</bridgehead>
<para>Burlington, MA.
 June 22, 2008 - OpenLink Software, Inc., announces the immediate availability of the latest edition of OpenLink Virtuoso, its industry-acclaimed hybrid data-server and integration platform for SQL, XML, RDF, and Web Services.
 This release introduces a new approach to enterprise information and data-integration, leveraging recent advances in Semantic Web technology and the best practices of HTTP-based Linked Data across heterogeneous data sources.
 The new release provides a platform for declaratively developing and deploying conceptual views of disparate enterprise data sources such as SQL databases, XML and RDF data sources, and SOA-based Web services.</para>
<para>Virtuoso enables end users, systems architects, systems integrators, and developers to interact with data at the conceptual as opposed to the traditional logical level.
 Data about customers, suppliers, invoices, orders, etc., stored in existing ODBC- or JDBC-accessible database systems such as Oracle, Informix, Ingres, SQL Server, Sybase, Progress, PostgreSQL, or MySQL, can easily be presented in RDF form for use in Semantic Web applications.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> New Features</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Meta Schema language for exposing SQL, XML, and Web Service data as RDF Linked Data </listitem>
<listitem>On-the-fly transformation of Web Services into RDF Linked Data </listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL Query Language support, facilitating powerful holistic views and traversal of enterprise data relationships </listitem>
<listitem>Transparent integration of SPARQL and SQL, such that SPARQL is executable from SQL via ODBC, JDBC, OLE-DB, or ADO.NET </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARUL">Support for</ulink> the <ulink url="http://jena.hpl.hp.com/~afs/SPARQL-Update.html">SPARQL/Update</ulink> (SPARUL) extension of SPARQL </listitem>
<listitem>Data-referencing across database instance, machine, and network boundaries </listitem>
<listitem>Use of HTTP/1.1 transparent content-negotiation for unobtrusive injection of RDF-based Linked Data, projecting existing infrastructure into the broader Semantic Web without disrupting ongoing activities.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSRDFDataProviders">Storage Providers</ulink> for <ulink url="VirtJenaProvider">Jena</ulink>, <ulink url="VirtSesame2Provider">Sesame</ulink>, <ulink url="VirtRDFDriverRedland">Redland</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSArticleBISPARQL2">Business Intelligence Extensions for SPARQL</ulink> -- expressions in results, aggregates, grouping, and derived tables.
</listitem>
<listitem>Significant enhancements to the inference support, enabling <ulink url="VOSArticleWebScaleRDF">web-scale RDF support</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> <ulink url="VirtInstallationEC2">Amazon EC2 instance now also available</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Newly available is an <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces AMI (Amazon Machine Image), bundling the Virtuoso Universal Server, <ulink url="Ods">OpenLink Data Spaces</ulink> (ODS), <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/owiki/OATWikiWeb/OATWikiWeb/OATWikiWebIndex">OpenLink Ajax Toolkit</ulink> (OAT), and a collection of 3rd party applications (Wordpress, <ulink url="MediaWiki">MediaWiki</ulink>, phpBB3, and others).
 In moments, the ODS AMI delivers --</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Point of presence on the Linked Data Web that meshes your Identity and your Data via URIs </listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL endpoint for SPARQL Protocol based access to your Data </listitem>
<listitem>(X)HTML based Interactive SPARQL Query Builder for SPARQL Query By Example </listitem>
<listitem>(X)HTML based Linked Data Browser/Viewer </listitem>
<listitem>System generated Social Network Profile &amp; Contact Data via FOAF </listitem>
<listitem>System generated global Data Space overview via SIOC </listitem>
<listitem>System generated <ulink url="OpenID">OpenID</ulink> and automatic integration with FOAF </listitem>
<listitem>Transparent Integration with Facebook </listitem>
<listitem>Transparent integration with Amazon S3 for data backup and restore </listitem>
<listitem>Built-in support for <ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink>, enabling data synchronization with Mobile Phones</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Leadership via Innovative and Pragmatic use of Semantic Web Technology</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Effective combination of domain expertise with enterprise data-access and information-integration has been a challenging pursuit for organizations worldwide since the advent of the modern IT era,&quot; said Kingsley Idehen, Founder and CEO of OpenLink Software.
 &quot;This release of Virtuoso introduces a new generation of Semantic Web technology innovation, leadership and pragmatism.
 Virtuoso delivers a technological solution that solves real business problems today - such as integrating data that is associated with a variety of disparate schemas, served by databases from a variety of vendors,&quot; he added.</para>
<para>Soeren Auer, of the DBpedia project, commented, &quot;DBpedia provides a substrate for exposing knowledge buried in Wikipedia.
 Virtuoso enables us to serve the vast amount of DBpedia knowledge via Linked Data and SPARQL endpoints combining both performance and resilience.&quot;</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Broad Operating System Support</bridgehead>
<para>The new release is available in 32- and 64-bit forms, for Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, FreeBSD, Solaris, IBM AIX, HP-UX, and other UNIX platforms.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Extensive Industry-Standard Support</bridgehead>
<para>Industry standards supported by Virtuoso include SQL, ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, OLE-DB, RDF, SPARQL, GData, XML, XQuery, XPath, XSLT, XMLA, WebDAV, HTTP, OpenID, NNTP, ATOM-Publishing and more.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> About OpenLink Software</bridgehead>
OpenLink Software is a privately held software company with offices in the U.S.A., United Kingdom and Netherlands.
 It has been the leading provider and technology innovator in the universal data-access middleware market since 1993 with more than 10,000 companies currently using its products worldwide.<para>Additional information on OpenLink Software can be found on the company web site, <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">http://www.openlinksw.com/</ulink>.</para>
<para>Additional information on Virtuoso is available from </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Web site -- <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Weblog -- <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/weblogs/virtuoso/">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/weblogs/virtuoso/</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> Press Contact:  Helen Heward-Mills,  OpenLink Software, Inc.
  Tel: 781 273 0900  Email: <ulink url="hmills@openlinksw.com">hmills@openlinksw.com</ulink></para>
<para>Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
  Other product names are trademarks of their respective owners.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryPressRelease">CategoryPressRelease</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVOS">CategoryVOS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryCorpComms">CategoryCorpComms</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>