<docbook><section><title>VirtLinkedInMeta</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"><ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> Meta-Cartridge</bridgehead>
<para>The meta-cartridge looks for foaf:Person instances in the source graph being enriched then, using the person&#39;s foaf:name, searches against <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> to get their public profile URL.
 The public profile URL is then exposed as an rdfs:seeAlso link in the source graph.
 When de-referenced, this link is materialized by the <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> extractor cartridge into a Linked Data representation of that person&#39;s <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> profile.</para>
<para>The <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> meta-cartridge must be configured with a <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> API key and session key.
 These are specified through the cartridge options consumer_key and consumer_secret.
 It can share the same <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> API and session keys used by the <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> extractor cartridge.
 For details of how to configure the latter, please see <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtCartConfigLinkedIn">here</ulink>.</para>
<para>The meta-cartridge also requires a <ulink url="LinkedIn">LinkedIn</ulink> OAuth access token with which to sign API requests.
 It automatically uses the first available unexpired access token registered for the extractor cartridge.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Related</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesMeta">Virtuoso Meta Cartridges</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSponger">Virtuoso Sponger</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesMetaRESTExamples">Parametrized Examples of Meta Cartridge Usage via REST Request</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesMetaREST">Meta Cartridges Usage via REST Request</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSources">OpenLink-supplied Virtuoso Sponger Cartridges</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>