<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoDAVS3</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Virtuoso Amazon S3 Folder</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> implementation includes a special folder type for binding to Amazon S3 Services (&quot;S3 Buckets&quot;).
 ODS-Briefcase and any <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> client may work with these folders as if they were hosted directly in Virtuoso.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Why</bridgehead>
<para>Amazon S3 provides a simple web services interface to a storage system that can be used to store and retrieve any amount of data.
 The service aims to maximize benefits of scale and to pass those benefits on to developers.</para>
<para>By providing a <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> interface to Amazon&#39;s service, the Virtuoso Amazon S3 Folder brings access to this storage system to any operating system (and any application running therein) with a <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> filesystem driver.
 This includes Windows (&quot;Remote Directories&quot;), Mac OS X (&quot;Mount Server...&quot;), Linux, and others.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Creation of Amazon S3 Folders</bridgehead>
<para>The folder is created just as other <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> folder, with some special properties: </para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><emphasis>Folder Type</emphasis> (tab <emphasis>Main</emphasis>) — must be set to <emphasis>Amazon S3</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Access Key ID</emphasis> (tab <emphasis>S3 Properties</emphasis>) — <emphasis>Mandatory</emphasis> setting.
 Set to <emphasis>Amazon S3 user&#39;s access key</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Secret Key</emphasis> (tab <emphasis>S3 Properties</emphasis>) — <emphasis>Mandatory</emphasis> setting.
 Set to <emphasis>Amazon S3 user&#39;s secret key</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Bucket Name</emphasis> (tab <emphasis>S3 Properties</emphasis>) — <emphasis>Optional</emphasis> setting.
 Set to <emphasis>Amazon S3 Bucket name</emphasis> to retrict <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> access to that S3 Bucket (and any sub-buckets).
 When not set (i.e., blank), all S3 Buckets available to this user are accessible through the <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> folder.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Working with S3 Folders</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5"> When Bucket Name property is empty or unset</bridgehead>
 <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>All available buckets are shown for this user.
</listitem>
<listitem>New buckets can be created with the following name rules: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Bucket and S3 Folder names must only contain lowercase letters, numbers, periods &quot;.&quot;, and hyphens &quot;-&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Bucket and S3 Folder names must not contain forward slash (solidus) &quot;/&quot;, backward slash &quot;\&quot;, nor underscore &quot;_&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>Bucket names must start with a number or letter, not a period or dash.
</listitem>
<listitem>Bucket names should not end with a dash.
</listitem>
<listitem>Bucket names should be between 3 and 63 characters long, and cannot be more than 255 characters long.
</listitem>
<listitem>Bucket names cannot be in an IP address style (that is, four period-separated octets, e.g., &quot;192.168.5.4&quot;).
</listitem>
<listitem>Hyphens cannot appear next to periods.
 For example, &quot;my-.bucket&quot; and &quot;my.-bucket&quot; are both invalid; &quot;my-bucket&quot; and &quot;my.bucket&quot; are valid.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Bucket contents are shown through a tree widget.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5"> When Bucket Name property is not empty</bridgehead>
 <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Bucket contents are shown through a tree widget.
</listitem>
<listitem>New files and folders can be created, updated, and deleted, within the bucket.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Virtuoso Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseAmazonS3">ODS Briefcase Amazon S3</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> References</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://aws.amazon.com/s3/">Amazon S3 Services</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/GettingStartedGuide/">Amazon Cloud Front Getting Started Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDAV">CategoryDAV</ulink> <ulink url="CategorySpec">CategorySpec</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebDAV">CategoryWebDAV</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>