<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksDiscoverSPARQFedCapabilities</title><title>How to discover the capabilities of a SPARQL endpoint to enhancing SPARQL-FED usage from Virtuoso instances using LOAD SERVICE ...
 DATA</title>How to discover the capabilities of a SPARQL endpoint to enhancing SPARQL-FED usage from Virtuoso instances using LOAD SERVICE ...
 DATA
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What?</bridgehead>
 How to discover the capabilities of a SPARQL endpoint en route to enhancing SPARQL-FED usage from Virtuoso instances using LOAD SERVICE ...
 DATA.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Why?</bridgehead>
<para>There are features supported in Virtuoso SPARQL that aren&#39;t supported by other SPARQL engines.
 There are also a lot of Virtuoso instances behind bubbles in the LOD cloud.
 Net effect, a Virtuoso instance operator is faced with varied behavior when attempting to use SPARQL-FED functionality.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How?</bridgehead>
<para>Run this command to load metadata (or lack thereof) from an external SPARQL endpoint:</para>
<programlisting>SPARQL LOAD SERVICE &lt;sparql-endpoint-iri&gt; DATA 
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Example</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Load <ulink url="http://lod.openlinksw.com">LOD</ulink> SPARQL Endpoint data: <programlisting>SPARQL LOAD SERVICE &lt;http://lod.openlinksw.com/sparql&gt; DATA 

Query result:

ANY
 Load service &lt;http://lod.openlinksw.com/sparql&gt; data -- done.  
 Trying to query &lt;http://lod.openlinksw.com/sparql&gt; as SPARQL web service endpoint, POST mode...
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Check the loaded data: <programlisting>SPARQL 
SELECT * 
  FROM virtrdf: 
 WHERE 
     {
       &lt;http://lod.openlinksw.com/sparql&gt; ?p ?o
     }
 LIMIT 10


Query result:
p                                                                o 
ANY                                                              ANY 	
http://www.openlinksw.com/schemas/virtrdf#isEndpointOfService	 http://lod.openlinksw.com/sparql-sd
http://www.openlinksw.com/schemas/virtrdf#dialect                000037ff
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Additional Usage Benefits</bridgehead>
<para> Suppose one queries a remote endpoint and get sort of <emphasis>&quot;Unsupported ..
 &quot;</emphasis> kind of errors -- the proper solution is to run SPARQL LOAD SERVICE DATA.
 If however the error persists, one should rephrase the query as the remote can&#39;t handle the query in its current form.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDiscoverSPARQFedCapabilitiesSPARQL">Adding SPARQL Endpoint Capabilities Interrogation to Virtuoso SPARQL-FED functionality</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>