<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGecodeData</title><para> </para>
<title>How Do I Gecode Data?</title>How Do I Gecode Data?
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What?</bridgehead>
 Automatic geocoding of data in quad store.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Why?</bridgehead>
 Enable exploitation of SPARQL-GEO for geospatial oriented queries.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How?</bridgehead>
 To gecode data one should call the <emphasis><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/fn_rdf_geo_fill.html">rdf_geo_fill</ulink></emphasis> API from Conductor or iSQL:<programlisting>SQL&gt; rdf_geo_fill ();

Done. -- 282 msec.
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">SPARQL-GEO sample queries</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://lod.openlinksw.com/b3s/search.vsp?q=20&amp;sc=http%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FOxford&amp;sc2=5&amp;sc3=http%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fproperty%2Festablished&amp;sc4=en&amp;fa=Execute">All Educational Institutions within 10km of Oxford, UK</ulink>: <programlisting>SELECT DISTINCT ?thing AS ?uri ?thingLabel AS ?name ?date AS ?established ?lat ?long WHERE
  {
    &lt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Oxford&gt; geo:geometry ?sourcegeo .
    ?resource geo:geometry ?matchgeo .
    ?resource geo:lat ?lat .
    ?resource geo:long ?long .
    FILTER ( bif:st_intersects ( ?matchgeo, ?sourcegeo, 5 ) ) .
    ?thing ?somelink ?resource .
    ?thing &lt;http://dbpedia.org/property/established&gt; ?date .
    ?thing rdfs:label ?thingLabel .
    FILTER ( lang ( ?thingLabel ) = &quot;en&quot; )
  }
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://lod.openlinksw.com/b3s/search.vsp?q=18&amp;sc=http%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FLondon&amp;sc2=20&amp;sc3=en&amp;fa=Execute">Things within close proximity of London</ulink>: <programlisting>SELECT DISTINCT ?resource ?label ?location WHERE
  {
    &lt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/London&gt; geo:geometry ?sourcegeo .
    ?resource geo:geometry ?location ; rdfs:label ?label .
    FILTER ( bif:st_intersects ( ?location, ?sourcegeo, 20 ) ) .
    FILTER ( lang ( ?label ) = &quot;en&quot; )
  }
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/fn_rdf_geo_fill.html"><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikirdf_geo_fill</span> API</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/fn_rdf_geo_add.html"><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikirdf_geo_add</span> API</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparqlgeospat.html#rdfsparqlgeospatcrg">Creating Geometries From RDF Data</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparqlgeospat.html#rdfsparqlgeospatprog">Programmatic Manipulation of Geometries in RDF</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparqlgeospat.html#rdfsparqlgeospatusg">Using Geometries With Existing Databases</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://lod.openlinksw.com/b3s/">OpenLink Billion Triple Demo queries</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>