<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGetObjDatatype</title><title>How can I obtain the object datatype?</title>How can I obtain the object datatype?
<para>To display  the object datatype of a triple in a SPARQL result set, the internal Virtuoso/PL function <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/fn_rdf_datatype_of_obj.html"><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiDB.DBA.RDF_DATATYPE_OF_OBJ</span></ulink> can be used, invoked as sql:RDF_DATATYPE_OF_OBJ.</para>
<para>Assume the following scenario:</para>
<programlisting># Explicit typecast (insert) 
SQL&gt; sparql insert into &lt;test_datatype&gt; { &lt;a&gt; &lt;string&gt; &quot;string 1&quot;^^xsd:string . };
callret-0
VARCHAR
_______________________________________________________________________________

Insert into &lt;test_datatype&gt;, 1 (or less) triples -- done

1 Rows. -- 94 msec.


#Not explicit typecast (insert)
SQL&gt; sparql insert into &lt;test_datatype&gt; { &lt;a&gt; &lt;string&gt; &quot;string 2&quot;. };
callret-0
VARCHAR
_______________________________________________________________________________

Insert into &lt;test_datatype&gt;, 1 (or less) triples -- done

1 Rows. -- 16 msec.

SQL&gt; SPARQL 
SELECT ?o (iri(sql:RDF_DATATYPE_OF_OBJ(?o, &#39;untyped!&#39;))) 
FROM &lt;test_datatype&gt; { &lt;a&gt; &lt;string&gt; ?o} ;
o                       callret-1
VARCHAR                 VARCHAR
_______________________________________________________________________________

string 1                http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string 
string 2                untyped!

2 Rows. -- 16 msec.
SQL&gt;	
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>