<docbook><section><title>VirtOAuthTestTool</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OAuth Test Tool for ODS Controllers</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is it?</bridgehead>
 The ODS OAuth Test Tool creates examples to show users the correct format for constructing HTTP requests signed according to OAuth specifications.
 The users use this format in their applications to make successful requests to the ODS REST APIs.<para>The ODS users generate a Consumer Key and a Consumer Secret for their application instances by ODS application UI (Setings -&gt; OAuth Keys).
 You can find more information and sample scenario <ulink url="VirtOAuthControllers">here</ulink></para>
<para>To reach a specific ODS resource via the <ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllers">ODS REST API</ulink>, a user must also specify a API method and associated API parameters.</para>
<para>ODS OAuth standards validate the credentials of an external user by means of the digital signature.
 If the user signs the request, and the ODS server validates the digital signature, the developer is granted access to the requested resource.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How is it accessible?</bridgehead>
<para>To tool is accessible via http:/host:port/ods/oauth_test.vsp</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Examples</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBriefcase">ODS Briefcase</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleWeblog">ODS Weblog</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleAddressbook">ODS Addressbook</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBookmarks">ODS Bookmarks</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExamplePolls">ODS Polls</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleCalendar">ODS Calendar</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleFeeds">ODS Feed Manager</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">References</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OAuth">OpenLink&#39;s explanation of OAuth</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOAuthServer">Virtuoso OAuth server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthControllers">Using OAuth with ODS</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquity">ODS Ubiquity Commands</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuth">Virtuoso OAuth Implementation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllers">ODS Controllers</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtODSOAuthQA">Testing Virtuoso OAuth with 3rd Party OAuth Clients</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsOAuth">OAuth Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthSPARQL">Virtuoso SPARQL OAuth Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorials">ODS Ubiquity Tutorials</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthExamples">OAuth Applications Authentication examples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://oauth.net/core/1.0/">OAuth API</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>