<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLEndpointSaveResultsWebDAV</title><para> </para>
<title>How To Let the SPARQL Endpoint Save Results In WebDAV?</title>How To Let the SPARQL Endpoint Save Results In <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>?
<para> By default the SPARQL endpoint can only send the result back to the client.
 This might be inconvenient in case of the result is expected to be accessible from programs like File Managers or Archivers.</para>
<para>The solution is to let the Endpoint to create &quot;Dynamic&quot; resources in a <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> folder on the Virtuoso server.
 A <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> client, e.g.
 the built-in client of Windows Explorer, can then connect to that storage and to access these resources as if they were local files.</para>
<para>If you are the Database Administrator and you want to enable this feature, you should perform the following steps:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Make sure the Web Service Endpoint runs under the &quot;SPARQL&quot; account.
 This user should have an access to <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> (U_DAV_ENABLE=1 in the Virtuoso DB.DBA.SYS_USERS) table.
</listitem>
<listitem>A <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> home directory (e.g.
 /DAV/home/SPARQL/ ) should be created and the path to it should be remembered in DB.DBA.SYS_USERS (U_HOME) field.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Note: do not forget to add the leading and the trailing slash chars.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>The home directory should contain a sub-directory with name &quot;saved-sparql-results&quot;, and the sub-directory should have &quot;<ulink url="DynaRes">DynaRes</ulink>&quot; DAV Extension Type.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>After the appropriate directory is set up correctly, the SPARQL Web Service Endpoint will then show additional options to choose how to save results.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparql.html">Virtuoso Documentation</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>