<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksVirtuosoDataCenterInforceUsgL</title><title>How to enforce usage limits?</title>How to enforce usage limits?
<para>If a public SPARQL end point is offered, we recommend running this in <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/anytimequeries.html#anytimequeries">anytime query</ulink> mode, where user requests are automatically terminated after a settable timeout and the results  found before the timeout are returned to the user.
 In this way, no matter what users do, they will not entirely monopolize a server.</para>
<para>The <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/anytimequeries.html#anytimequeries">anytime query</ulink> mode is not suitable for application access, where the queries are composed by the application developer and are expected to return complete answers.
 Thus the public SPARQL endpoint can run in <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/anytimequeries.html#anytimequeries">anytime query</ulink> mode but application connections will get full results and not be interrupted by timeout.</para>
<para> <emphasis>Note</emphasis>: When using the /sparql UI with the default timeout left at 0, you will get a time out.
 Doing the same thing, but with a timeout setting of 30000 (milliseconds) you get a result.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksVirtuosoDataCenter">Virtuoso Data Center Tips and Tricks</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>