<docbook><section><title>VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide_Glossary</title><para> </para>
<title>Deploying Linked Data Guide - Glossary</title>Deploying Linked Data Guide - Glossary
 <ulink url="VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide">Deploying Linked Data - TOC</ulink><para> </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><emphasis>class</emphasis> - A concept in a domain of interest.
 A class describes the common attributes and behaviours shared by entities belonging to the same group by virtue of their common characteristics.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>content negotiation</emphasis> - A mechanism defined in HTTP which supports serving different representations of a URL-addressable resource.
 An HTTP client can indicate which representation formats it understands and prefers.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>cURL</emphasis> - A command line tool for transferring files to or from a URL.
 It writes to standard output by default and provides a good tool for simulating a web browser&#39;s interaction with an HTTP server.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>data source</emphasis> - A source of data (e.g.
 a place that provides access to property values associated with one or more Entities).
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>data resource</emphasis> - same as data source </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>data space</emphasis> - A moniker for Web-accessible atomic containers that manage and expose data, information, services, processes, and knowledge.
 Data Spaces are fundamentally problem-domain-specific database applications with the benefit of being data model and query language agnostic.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>dereferencing</emphasis> - The act of accessing and retrieving data, in desired representation, from a location identified by URL.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>document resource</emphasis> - A Web information resource in a specific representation that is identifiable and accessible via a URL.
 Documents are the dominant information resource form on the Document Web (i.e., the current Web).
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Document Web</emphasis> - Web of Linked Documents.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>entity</emphasis> - Something, real or conceptual, which exists apart from other things.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>entity ID</emphasis> - A unique identifier for an entity, uniquely identifying and distinguishing a particular entity instance from other similar entities (typically of the same type or class).
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>entity set</emphasis> - A collection of entities all belonging to the same class.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>HTTP (HyperText Transport Protocol)</emphasis> - A communication protocol for information transfer on the World Wide Web.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>HTTP header</emphasis> - A text record exchanged between an HTTP client and server, which forms part of an HTTP request or HTTP response message.
 A request consists of a method (or verb), headers, and an optional message body.
 The request header fields allow the client to send additional information about the request and the client itself.
 A response consists of a status line, headers, and an optional message body.
 A response header typically contains information about the data being returned and about the server itself.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>information resource</emphasis> - An encapsulation of data and representation that forms the basic payload unit (packet) on the Web Information Bus.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>IRI (Internationalized Resource Identifier)</emphasis> - An internationalized version of a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).
 While URIs are limited to a subset of the ASCII character set, IRIs may contain any Unicode character.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Linked Data</emphasis> - A Data Access by Reference mechanism that uses HTTP as a pointer system for accessing the negotiated representation of resource/entity descriptions.
 For example, an RDF model based resource description can be projected (represented) using (X)HTML, N3, Turtle, or RDF/XML via content negotiation.
 At all times the data access mechanism and ultimate presentation/representation format are distinct..
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Linked Data Web</emphasis> - Web of Linked Data.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>non-information resource</emphasis> - Any resource that is not an information resource (i.e., not Web transportable in basic form).
 Structured data resource (see below) is a more accurate and preferable term.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>structured data resource</emphasis> - A Web accessible container of structured data representing physical and abstract entities.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>structured data</emphasis> - Data organized into semantic chunks or entities, with similar entities grouped together in relations or classes, and presented in a patterned manner.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>structured data source</emphasis> - A repository of structured data.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>URL (Uniform Resource Locator)</emphasis> - A URI that identifies a physical Web resource.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>URI (Uniform Resource Identifier)</emphasis> - A global identification mechanism for resources (entities or objects) that is completely distinct from their presentation, representation and data access mechanism.
</listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Web information resource</emphasis> - A compound document style of artifact that provides a materialized contextualization of data.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> <emphasis><ulink url="VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide">Back</ulink></emphasis> to Deploying Linked Data Guide | <emphasis><ulink url="VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide_AppendixB">Previous:</ulink></emphasis> Appendix B: New Proxy URI Formats | <emphasis><ulink url="VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide_Bibliography">Next:</ulink></emphasis> Bibliography </para>
</section></docbook>