<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuideShortenLongURIs</title><title> What is the ShortenLongURIs Virtuoso configuration parameter</title> What is the <ulink url="ShortenLongURIs">ShortenLongURIs</ulink> Virtuoso configuration parameter
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What?</bridgehead>
<para>The <ulink url="ShortenLongURIs">ShortenLongURIs</ulink> parameter is a Virtuoso configuration setting to shorten extremely long URIs in datasets when loading with the RDF Bulk Loader.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Why?</bridgehead>
<para>Some RDF datasets have long URIs that exceed the Virtuoso internal maximum size of 1900 bytes and thus need to be shortened to avoid errors like:</para>
<programlisting>SR133: Can not set NULL to not nullable column &#39;DB.DBA.RDF_QUAD.S&#39; (or .O, or .P)
</programlisting><para> which has been seen loading some of the DBpedia 3.7 datasets, for example.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How?</bridgehead>
<para>The Virtuoso <ulink url="ShortenLongURIs">ShortenLongURIs</ulink> parameter needs to be set in the [<ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/databaseadmsrv.html#ini_SPARQL">SPARQL</ulink>] section of the Virtuoso configuration file (virtuoso.ini by default) and restart the Virtuoso Server.</para>
<programlisting>[SPARQL]
.
.
.
ShortenLongURIs = 1
.
.
.
</programlisting><para> <emphasis>Note:</emphasis> The <ulink url="ShortenLongURIs">ShortenLongURIs</ulink> parameter is only in the Virtuoso 06.03.3131+ commercial builds, at the time of writing it is not included in the open source 6.1.4 archives but will be in the next 6.1.5 release.
 A patch to enable this feature is however available from the <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=3496331&amp;group_id=161622&amp;atid=820576">Virtuso patches page on source forge</ulink>, which can be applied to a 6.1.4 archive from source forge and the Virtuoso server binary rebuilt.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfinsertmethods.html">RDF Insert Methods in Virtuoso</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>