<docbook><section><title>VirtDumpLoadRdfGraphs</title><para>o Scripts to Dump and Reload RDF Graphs</para>
<para>Every DBMS needs to offer a mechanism for bulk export and import of data.</para>
<para>Virtuoso supports dumping and reloading graph model data (e.g., RDF), as well as relational data (e.g., SQL) (discussed elsewhere).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> How is it done?</bridgehead>
<para>We have created stored procedures for the task.
 The dump procedures leverage SPARQL to facilitate selective data dump(s) from one or more Named Graphs, each denoted by an IRI.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> dump_one_graph</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Parameters</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>IN <emphasis>srcgraph</emphasis> VARCHAR -- </listitem>
<listitem>IN <emphasis>out_file</emphasis> VARCHAR -- </listitem>
<listitem>IN <emphasis>file_length_limit </emphasis> INTEGER -- maximum length of dump files</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Procedure source</bridgehead>
<programlisting>CREATE PROCEDURE dump_one_graph 
  ( IN  srcgraph           VARCHAR  , 
    IN  out_file           VARCHAR  , 
    IN  file_length_limit  INTEGER  := 1000000000
  )
  {
    DECLARE  file_name  varchar;
    DECLARE  env, ses      any;
    DECLARE  ses_len, 
             max_ses_len, 
             file_len, 
             file_idx      integer;
    SET ISOLATION = &#39;uncommitted&#39;;
    max_ses_len := 10000000;
    file_len := 0;
    file_idx := 1;
    file_name := sprintf (&#39;%s%06d.ttl&#39;, out_file, file_idx);
    string_to_file ( file_name || &#39;.graph&#39;, 
                     srcgraph, 
                     -2
                   );
    string_to_file ( file_name, 
                     sprintf ( &#39;# Dump of graph &lt;%s&gt;, as of %s\n&#39;, 
                               srcgraph, 
                               CAST (NOW() AS VARCHAR)
                             ), 
                     -2
                   );
    env := vector (dict_new (16000), 0, &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, 0, 0, 0, 0);
    ses := string_output ();
    FOR (SELECT * FROM ( SPARQL DEFINE input:storage &quot;&quot; 
                         SELECT ?s ?p ?o { GRAPH `iri(?:srcgraph)` { ?s ?p ?o } } 
                       ) AS sub OPTION (LOOP)) DO
      {
        http_ttl_triple (env, &quot;s&quot;, &quot;p&quot;, &quot;o&quot;, ses);
        ses_len := length (ses);
        IF (ses_len &gt; max_ses_len)
          {
            file_len := file_len + ses_len;
            IF (file_len &gt; file_length_limit)
              {
                http (&#39; .\n&#39;, ses);
                string_to_file (file_name, ses, -1);
                file_len := 0;
                file_idx := file_idx + 1;
                file_name := sprintf (&#39;%s%06d.ttl&#39;, out_file, file_idx);
                string_to_file ( file_name, 
                                 sprintf ( &#39;# Dump of graph &lt;%s&gt;, as of %s (part %d)\n&#39;, 
                                           srcgraph, 
                                           CAST (NOW() AS VARCHAR), 
                                           file_idx), 
                                 -2
                               );
                 env := vector (dict_new (16000), 0, &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, &#39;&#39;, 0, 0, 0, 0);
              }
            ELSE
              string_to_file (file_name, ses, -1);
            ses := string_output ();
          }
      }
    IF (LENGTH (ses))
      {
        http (&#39; .\n&#39;, ses);
        string_to_file (file_name, ses, -1);
      }
  }
;
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> dump_graphs</bridgehead>
<para>The dump_graphs procedure can be used to dump all the graphs in a Virtuoso server to a set of turtle (.ttl) data files in the specified dump directory.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Parameters</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>IN <emphasis>dir</emphasis> VARCHAR -- dump directory </listitem>
<listitem>IN <emphasis>file_length_limit </emphasis> INTEGER -- maximum length of dump files</listitem>
</itemizedlist><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> The dump directory must be included in the <ulink url="DirsAllowed">DirsAllowed</ulink> parameter of the Virtuoso configuration file (virtuoso.ini), or the Virtuoso server will not be able to create or access the data files.</emphasis><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Procedure source</bridgehead>
<programlisting>CREATE PROCEDURE dump_graphs 
  ( IN  dir               VARCHAR  :=  &#39;dumps&#39;   , 
    IN  file_length_limit INTEGER  :=  1000000000
  )
  {
    DECLARE inx INT;
    inx := 1;
    SET ISOLATION = &#39;uncommitted&#39;;
    FOR ( SELECT * 
            FROM ( SPARQL DEFINE input:storage &quot;&quot; 
                   SELECT DISTINCT ?g { GRAPH ?g { ?s ?p ?o } . 
                                        FILTER ( ?g != virtrdf: ) 
                                      } 
                 ) AS sub OPTION ( LOOP )) DO
      {
        dump_one_graph ( &quot;g&quot;, 
                         sprintf (&#39;%s/graph%06d_&#39;, dir, inx), 
                         file_length_limit
                       );
        inx := inx + 1;
      }
  }
;


</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> load_graphs</bridgehead>
<para>The load_graphs procedure can then be used to load a dumped dataset&#39;s ttl files into a Virtuoso Server instance.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Parameters</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>IN <emphasis>dir</emphasis> VARCHAR - dump directory</listitem>
</itemizedlist><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> The dump directory must be included in the <ulink url="DirsAllowed">DirsAllowed</ulink> parameter of the Virtuoso configuration file (virtuoso.ini), or the Virtuoso server will not be able to access the data file(s).</emphasis><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Procedure source</bridgehead>
<programlisting>CREATE PROCEDURE load_graphs 
  ( IN  dir  VARCHAR := &#39;dumps/&#39; )
{
  DECLARE arr ANY;
  DECLARE g VARCHAR;

  arr := sys_dirlist (dir, 1);
  log_enable (2, 1);
  FOREACH (VARCHAR f IN arr) DO
    {
      IF (f LIKE &#39;*.ttl&#39;)
	{
	  DECLARE CONTINUE HANDLER FOR SQLSTATE &#39;*&#39;
	    {
	      log_message (sprintf (&#39;Error in %s&#39;, f));
	    };
  	  g := file_to_string (dir || &#39;/&#39; || f || &#39;.graph&#39;);
	  DB.DBA.TTLP_MT (file_open (dir || &#39;/&#39; || f), g, g, 255);
	}
    }
  EXEC (&#39;CHECKPOINT&#39;);
}
;
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Examples</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Dump One Graph</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Call the dump_one_graph procedure with appropriate arguments: <programlisting>$ pwd
/Applications/OpenLink Virtuoso/Virtuoso 6.1/database
$ grep DirsAllowed virtuoso.ini
DirsAllowed              = ., ../vad, ./dumps
$ /opt/virtuoso/bin/isql 1111
Connected to OpenLink Virtuoso
Driver: 06.01.3127 OpenLink Virtuoso ODBC Driver
OpenLink Interactive SQL (Virtuoso), version 0.9849b.
Type HELP; for help and EXIT; to exit.SQL&gt; dump_one_graph (&#39;http://daas.openlinksw.com/data#&#39;, &#39;./data_&#39;, 1000000000); 
Done. -- 1438 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>As a result, a dump of the graph  will be found in the files data_XX (located in your Virtuoso db folder): <programlisting>&lt;verbatim&gt;
$ ls dumps
data_000001.ttl
data_000002.ttl
....
data_000001.ttl.graph
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Dump All Graphs</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Call the dump_graphs procedure: <programlisting>$ pwd
/Applications/OpenLink Virtuoso/Virtuoso 6.1/database
$ grep DirsAllowed virtuoso.ini
DirsAllowed              = ., ../vad, ./dumps
$ /opt/virtuoso/bin/isql 1111
Connected to OpenLink Virtuoso
Driver: 06.01.3127 OpenLink Virtuoso ODBC Driver
OpenLink Interactive SQL (Virtuoso), version 0.9849b.
Type HELP; for help and EXIT; to exit.
SQL&gt; dump_graphs();

Done. -- 998 msec.
SQL&gt; quit;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>As a result, a dump of the graph  will be found in the files dumps/data_XX (located in your Virtuoso db folder): <programlisting>$ ls dumps
graph000001_000001.ttl		graph000005_000001.ttl
graph000001_000001.ttl.graph	graph000005_000001.ttl.graph
graph000002_000001.ttl		graph000006_000001.ttl
graph000002_000001.ttl.graph	graph000006_000001.ttl.graph
graph000003_000001.ttl		graph000007_000001.ttl
graph000003_000001.ttl.graph	graph000007_000001.ttl.graph
graph000004_000001.ttl		graph000008_000001.ttl
graph000004_000001.ttl.graph	graph000008_000001.ttl.graph
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Load All Data</bridgehead>
<programlisting>$ /opt/virtuoso/bin/isql 1112
Connected to OpenLink Virtuoso
Driver: 06.01.3127 OpenLink Virtuoso ODBC Driver
OpenLink Interactive SQL (Virtuoso), version 0.9849b.
Type HELP; for help and EXIT; to exit.
SQL&gt; load_graphs();

Done. -- 2392 msec.
SQL&gt; 
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDumpAndReloadGraphs">RDF dumps from Virtuoso Quad store hosted data</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfperformancetuning.html#rdfperfdumpandreloadgraphs">Virtuoso Documentation</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>