<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuideVirtLiteGuide</title><title>Virtuoso Lite Mode Installation and Configuration Guide</title>Virtuoso Lite Mode Installation and Configuration Guide
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What?</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso supports Lite mode, where the initial size of a server process is a tiny fraction of what the initial size would be with default settings.
 With 2MB of disk cache buffers (ini file setting, <ulink url="NumberOfBuffers">NumberOfBuffers</ulink> = 256), the process size stays under 30MB on 32-bit Linux.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Why?</bridgehead>
 The value of this is that one can now have RDF and full text indexing on the desktop without running a Java VM or any other memory-intensive software.
 And of course, all of SQL (transactions, stored procedures, etc.) is in the same embeddable-sized container.<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How?</bridgehead>
 The Lite executable is a full Virtuoso executable; the Lite mode is controlled by a switch in the configuration file.
 The executable size is about 10MB for 32-bit Linux.
 A database created in the Lite mode will be converted into a fully-featured database (tables and indexes are added, among other things) if the server is started with the Lite setting &quot;off&quot;; functionality can be reverted to Lite mode, though it will now consume somewhat more memory, etc.<para>Lite mode offers full SQL and SPARQL/SPARUL (via SPASQL), but disables all HTTP-based services (<ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>, application hosting, etc.).
 Clients can still use all typical database access mechanisms (i.e., ODBC, JDBC, OLE-DB, ADO.NET, and XMLA) to connect, including the Jena and Sesame frameworks for RDF.
 ODBC now offers full support of RDF data types for C-based clients.
 A Redland-compatible API also exists, for use with Redland v1.0.8 and later.</para>
<para>Especially for embedded use, we now allow restricting the listener to be a Unix socket, which allows client connections only from the localhost.</para>
<para>Shipping an embedded Virtuoso is easy.
 It just takes one executable and one configuration file.
 Performance is generally comparable to &quot;normal&quot; mode, except that Lite will be somewhat less scalable on multicore systems.</para>
<para>The Lite mode is included in the Virtuoso Open Source release.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Virtuoso ini Parameters section</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="LiteMode">LiteMode</ulink> = 0/1 (default 0) . Runs server in lite mode.
 When Lite mode is on: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The Web Services are not initialized i.e.
 no Web Server, DAV, SOAP, POP3 etc.; </listitem>
<listitem>The replication is stopped; </listitem>
<listitem>The PL debugging is disabled; </listitem>
<listitem>Plugins are disabled; </listitem>
<listitem>Rendezvous is disabled; </listitem>
<listitem>The relevant tables to the above are not created; </listitem>
<listitem>The index tree maps is set to 8 if no other setting is given; </listitem>
<listitem>Memory reserve is not allocated; </listitem>
<listitem>Affects <ulink url="DisableTcpSocket">DisableTcpSocket</ulink>.
 So <ulink url="DisableTcpSocket">DisableTcpSocket</ulink> setting is treated as 1 when <ulink url="LiteMode">LiteMode</ulink>=1, regardless of value in INI file; </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="IndexTreeMaps">IndexTreeMaps</ulink> = 2 -1024 (power of 2) Size of index tree maps, larger is better for speed but consume memory, in lite is 2 in &#39;normal&#39; mode is 256 by default; </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="DisableTcpSocket">DisableTcpSocket</ulink> = 1/0 Default = 0.
 If set to 1, disables database listener on TCP port; UNIX socket must be used for data access connections (ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, OLE DB).
 When <ulink url="LiteMode">LiteMode</ulink>=1, <ulink url="DisableTcpSocket">DisableTcpSocket</ulink> setting in INI file is ignored and treated as if set to 1.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/databaseadmsrv.html#VIRTINI">Virtuoso Configuration File</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>