<docbook><section><title>VirtProgressEntityFrameworkUsage</title><para> </para>
<title> Using Microsoft Entity Frameworks to Access Progress Schema Objects with Virtuoso</title> Using Microsoft Entity Frameworks to Access Progress Schema Objects with Virtuoso
<para>This document details the steps required to provide Microsoft Entity Framework access to Progress Schema Objects using the OpenLink Virtuoso Universal Server.
 This is achieved by Linking the required Progress Schema objects into Virtuoso using its built-in Virtual Database engine and then using the Virtuoso ADO.Net Entity Framework provider to query the remote Progress Schema objects linked into the Virtuoso Server.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<para>The following must be in place to complete this exercise.</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><emphasis>Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 SP1 (or later)</emphasis> Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 Service Pack 1 (or later) is required, as previous versions do not include the necessary Entity Framework support. </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Virtuoso ADO.NET Entity Framework Provider, v5.10 or later</emphasis> The ADO.NET Entity Framework Provider must be installed on the Visual Studio development and deployment host(s).
 Version 5.10.x or later is required, as previous versions do not include the necessary Entity Frameworks support. </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Virtuoso Universal Server, v5.10 or later</emphasis> Virtuoso Universal Server Release 5.10 or later is required, as previous versions do not include the necessary Entity Frameworks support.
 This may be on any host which is TCP/IP accessible from the Visual Studio development and deployment host(s). </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>ODBC Driver for Progress</emphasis> The Virtuoso Server uses an ODBC Driver for Progress to link in the Progress Schema Objects.
 The <emphasis>OpenLink Single-Tier ODBC Driver for Progress (SQL-92)</emphasis> will be used in this document, and a functional ODBC Data Source Name (DSN) of &quot;<emphasis>prs101c</emphasis>&quot; will be assumed to exist on the machine hosting the Virtuoso Server.
 Any ODBC compliant driver for Progress should work. </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Progress DBMS</emphasis> An Progress DBMS hosting the required Schema Objects needs to be available.
 This may be on any host which is TCP/IP accessible from the Virtuoso Server host.
 In this document, the Progress OpenEdge 10 <emphasis>isports</emphasis> database will be used to demonstrate the process.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Tasks</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><emphasis>Ensure Progress Primary Keys (PKs) are not nullable</emphasis> The Visual Studio 2008 Entity Data Model (EDM) requires that all primary keys are <emphasis>NOT</emphasis> Nullable, and will fail to generate an EDM if any are.
 Therefore, ensure any applicable primary keys are defined as not nullable in the Progress database schema before attempting to generate an EDM.
 In the case of the Progress isports database, several primary keys (PKs) <emphasis>are</emphasis> nullable.
 This issue is best addressed in the database schema, by <ulink url="VirtProgressPKNull">redefining those nullable PKs</ulink> to be non-nullable (or <emphasis>Mandatory</emphasis>, in the terms Progress uses). </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/InstallConfigODBC">Install and configure the OpenLink ODBC Driver for Progress (SQL-92)</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="VirtADOClientServInstall">Install and configure OpenLink Virtuoso Universal Server</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="VirtProgressLinkingObjects">Link Progress tables and other schema objects into OpenLink Virtuoso</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="VirtProgressEDM">Create a Visual Studio-hosted Entity Data Model (EDM)</ulink></emphasis>If entity-linking associations (i.e., Foreign Keys) are not automatically created (as they are not here with Progress), the <ulink url="VirtProgressAssociations">associations must be created manually</ulink>. </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="VirtEntityFrameworkProgressDatService">Use the EDM to create an Entity Frameworks-based ADO.NET Data Service</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem><emphasis><ulink url="VirtProgressVisualStudioDataGridFormsApp">Use the EDM to create an Entity Frameworks-based Windows DataGrid Form Application</ulink></emphasis></listitem>
</orderedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryEntityFrameworks">CategoryEntityFrameworks</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDotNET">CategoryDotNET</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryProgress">CategoryProgress</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>