<docbook><section><title>VOSDAVMD</title><title> WebDAV Support in Virtuoso</title> <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> Support in Virtuoso
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Protocol</bridgehead>
<para>Virtual directories in Virtuoso&#39;s web server space can be designated as <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>.
 When this is done, the resources are stored  in a set of SQL tables representing resources, collections, permissions, metadata, <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> locks and the like.
 Collections may optionally be text indexed if the resource in question is of a suitable content type.</para>
<para><ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> HTTP methods can then be used for accessing and manipulating content in such virtual directories.
 SQL applications can read the resources directly from the <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> tables, if SQL permissions  allow.
 A special <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> SQL API allows selective access to <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> without having to make the whole table readable to the application.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Users and Security</bridgehead>
<para>A <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resource has an owner, a group owner and a set of access flags, just as files in Unix.
 Additionally, collections and resources have an optional access control list.
 The access control list provides Win32 file system lie fine-grained granting and revoking of access.</para>
<para>All <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> protocol requests use digest authentication if the operation is not allowed for public.
 Additionally, a <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> virtual directory may be set up to require HTTPS.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Metadata</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso supports the <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> PROPBATCH method and the URIQA metadata access protocol.
 For supported content types, such as most XML formats and some binary formats, Virtuoso automatically reads the metadata from the file and stores it as an RDF description.
  This metadata can be used for providing alternate <ulink url="VOSDET">metadata driven views</ulink> of content, and for locating resources in applications.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Text Index</bridgehead>
<para>Text indexing can be enabled at the resource or the collection level.
 This allows for content searching from the administration interface.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Versions</bridgehead>
<para>Versioning can be enabled at the resource level.
 The versioning support corresponds to the Delta V core functionality.
 Versioning support is still somewhat experimental.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Administration Interface</bridgehead>
<para>The Virtuoso Conductor administration application must be used for setting privileges of <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resources, searching for content etc., since these features are not exposed by the basic protocol.
  A <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> Access Control protocol implementation may be added later, as user agents start supporting this.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Interop</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> server is tested with all Windows <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> clients, Mac OS X, and various open source <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> clients.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>