<docbook><section><title>VOSDAV</title><para>  </para>
<para> </para>
<title> Virtuoso WebDAV and Web Server</title> Virtuoso <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> and Web Server
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Introduction</bridgehead>
<para> Virtuoso has a built-in web server and <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> repository.
 These support both web content for human consumption as well as SOAP and other WS protocols for consumption by machine.</para>
<para>Dynamic web pages can be written in Virtuoso&#39;s own VSP and VSPX languages as well as in PHP, ASP.NET, JSP, Perl, Ruby, and Python with other dynamic languages to follow.</para>
<para>The Virtuoso <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> server goes far beyond a simple web file server.
 It provides versioning, optional text-indexing, metadata-extraction and indexing by metadata plus alternate views of <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> content grouped by metadata.</para>
<para>Virtuoso has the basic functionality of a generic web server, including HTTPS support, virtual directories, proxying, CLF logging etc.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSDAVMD">WebDAV, Users, Security, Meta Data and Versioning</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Security model, support for automatic content type recognition, indexing, versioning.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSDET">Virtual WebDAV Content and Views, WebDAV Extension Types</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Providing DAV access to non-DAV data, providing alternate filtered, grouped  and sorted views of <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> data.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSVSP">Dynamic Web Pages</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Writing web applications in Virtuoso/PL and SQL.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSScript">Hosting Popular Web Scripting Languages</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Hosting arbitrary third-party web applications under Virtuoso.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>