<docbook><section><title>VOSMailingLists</title><para> </para>
<title>Virtuoso Mailing Lists</title>Virtuoso Mailing Lists
<para>There are a few <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=161622">mailing lists</ulink> for the Virtuoso Open-Source project, hosted by SourceForge:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=virtuoso-announce">virtuoso‑announce</ulink>  </entry><entry> This is a very low volume list for authoritative announcements from <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software concerning new releases. In the event of a very serious bug, it might merit being announced on here. This list is particularly recommended for people maintaining packages of Virtuoso for various distributions, to monitor for new versions.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=virtuoso-users">virtuoso‑users</ulink>  </entry><entry> This is for user-level support.  Topics include assistance with initial binary building, starting instances, using <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces (ODS) applications through their web-based interfaces, general &quot;how do I...?&quot; questions, optimization concerns, etc.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=virtuoso-devel">virtuoso‑devel</ulink>  </entry><entry> This is for matters where you need to address the Virtuoso development team with a potential problem. Discussion of confirmed or possible bugs are welcome.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=virtuoso-distros">virtuoso‑distros</ulink>  </entry><entry> This is for discussion amongst maintainers of the virtuoso-opensource packages in various OS, mostly Linux, distributions.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>You can subscribe, unsubscribe, and control various preferences through the <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=161622">Sourceforge Virtuoso mailing list page</ulink>.</para>
<para>To best serve all concerned, submissions from non-subscribers are moderated.
 Valid submissions from non-subscribers will result in simultaneous subscription and posting.</para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>