<docbook><section><title>VOSStart</title><title> Getting Started with Virtuoso, Open Source Edition</title> Getting Started with Virtuoso, Open Source Edition
<para>This is the nexus page for getting started with Virtuoso, and replaces the corresponding Installation and Evaluator&#39;s Guide sections of the commercial release manual.</para>
<para>After you have <ulink url="VOSDownload">downloaded</ulink> and <ulink url="VOSBuild">built</ulink> your copy of Virtuoso Open Source Edition (VOS), this page contains instructions for getting underway.</para>
<para>You may wish to:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSODBCSetup">Set up ODBC</ulink> data sources to go to Virtuoso </listitem>
<listitem>Try your favorite web-development tools or applications with Virtuoso as the data store </listitem>
<listitem>Check out the <ulink url="VOSSPARQLDemo">SPARQL demo</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Take a tour of the <ulink url="VOSAdminTour">web admin interface</ulink>.
 With the demo database online, point the browser to <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/conductor">http://localhost:8890/conductor</ulink>.
 The default user is <emphasis>dba</emphasis> with password <emphasis>dba</emphasis> (it is recommended that you change these now, if you didn&#39;t during installation); the rest is self-explanatory.
</listitem>
<listitem>Take a tour of the <ulink url="VOSTutorial">online programming tutorials</ulink>.
 With the demo database online, point the browser to <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/tutorial">http://localhost:8890/tutorial</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>Consult documentation.
 With the demo database online, point the browser to <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/doc/html">http://localhost:8890/doc/html</ulink>.
 We also keep the <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso">full manual online</ulink>, as well as a wide range of <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VOSIndex">evolving supplementary information</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run the sample client applications.
 There is a <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/tpcc.html">TPCC test driver</ulink> with documentation that can serve as a tutorial on how to write stored procedures and configure the server for scale.
 There are scripts for automating all this: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to <emphasis>binsrc/tests</emphasis>, and excute -- <programlisting>make tpc M2
cd tpcrun
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>When inside binsrc/tests/tpcrun, you can run -- 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> ./tpc_run.sh clean </entry><entry> Set the initial state.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> ./tpc_run.sh init </entry><entry> Load the default test database.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> ./tpc_run.sh run </entry><entry> Run a sample with 16 clients and get automatic consistency checks at the end.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>See how things work from a programmer&#39;s perspective.
 Examples of everything can be found in the source tree, in binsrc/tests/suite/.
</listitem>
<listitem>Check out the <ulink url="VirtInstallationEC2">EC2 AMI Installation Guide</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>Try the <ulink url="VirtRDFInsert">RDF Insert Methods in Virtuoso</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>