<docbook><section><title>VOSSOA</title><para>  </para>
<title> Virtuoso Web Services and SOA</title> Virtuoso Web Services and SOA
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Introduction</bridgehead>
<para>Providing a machine-readable web and implementing service-oriented architectures is the business of today.
 Virtuoso offers a full range of functionality for these, starting with the base protocols and going all the way to complex process orchestration.</para>
<para>The wave of AJAX applications also reintroduces the notion of client/server database, now over web-services protocols.
 Virtuoso offers  XML for Analysis (XMLA) as a means for AJAX applications to access SQL directly, without page reloads.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSREST">REST</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Making a REST-ful web service is as easy as writing a dynamic web page in VSP that sends XML output to the user agent.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSSOAP">SOAP</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Stored procedures can be published as SOAP, with the benifit of automatic WSDL generation, checking and processing of input and output parameters, fault messages etc.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSWS">WS Protocols</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>SOAP is complemented by WS Security for selective encryption and signing of messages.
 WS Reliable Messaging provide guaranteed delivery and retry.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSInterop">Interop</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>The Virtuoso SOAP server and client pass the whole SOAP Interop suite, levels 1-4.
 The test scripts are part of the Virtuoso test suite provided with the source distribution.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VOSBPEL">BPEL4WS - Business Process Execution Language</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso comes with a BPEL4WS execution engine.
 This is the industry standard way of orchestrating long running business processes implemented as web services.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="VirtXMLA">XML for Analysis</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>XML for Analysis is an application of SOAP (Web Services transport) for SQL Data Access.</para>
<para>The net benefit of this protocol is the ability to develop database independent Rich Internet Applications via AJAX.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink>  <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>