<docbook><section><title>VOSUpgradeInstructions</title><para> </para>
<title> Upgrading from Virtuoso Release 4.x or earlier, to Virtuoso Release 5.x</title> Upgrading from Virtuoso Release 4.x or earlier, to Virtuoso Release 5.x
<para>If you have Virtuoso Release 4.x or earlier, with or without ODS, preserving your data while upgrading your installation and databases to Release 5.x or later requires the steps described below.</para>
<emphasis><emphasis>Important:</emphasis> To upgrade from Release 4.x or earlier to Release 6.x or later, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> first perform an incremental upgrade to Release 5.x; then, <ulink url="UpgradingToVOS610">upgrade from Release 5.x to current</ulink>.</emphasis><para>If you do not have any old data, you can skip this process, and simply use the new demo database, which has all the current ODS applications pre-installed.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Virtuoso binary components</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Shut down the previous server.
</listitem>
<listitem>Start the Release 5.x server executable you have built or downloaded into the same directory.
</listitem>
<listitem>There is a change in the DAV metadata represented in the RDF store.
To update everything, log in as dba with isql and execute: <programlisting>SQL&gt; dav_replicate_all_to_rdf_quad (1);
</programlisting>This is a one-time manual update which changes the DAV graph name, removing its trailing slash.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ODS applications and data</bridgehead>
<para>To upgrade the ODS applications and preserve any data you may have in them, do the following:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Shut down the server.
</listitem>
<listitem>Take a backup of the database file(s), just in case.
</listitem>
<listitem>Start the server.
</listitem>
<listitem>Re-install/upgrade the VAD package corresponding to each installed application.
 For VOS, these are found in the /share/virtuoso/vad/ directory in the tree where make install copies the results of the build; for Commercial Edition, they are found in the <emphasis>vad</emphasis> directory.
Updated VADs for both Editions, and can be downloaded from our website.
</listitem>
<listitem>Upgrade the installation through the Conductor (recommended), or by executing the following command in isql: <programlisting>SQL&gt; vad_install(&#39;ods_framework_dav.vad&#39;, 0);
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Repeat for each installed ODS or other VAD package.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryVOS">CategoryVOS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>