<docbook><section><title>VOSUsageWindows</title><para> </para>
<title> Using Virtuoso Open-Source Edition on Windows</title> Using Virtuoso Open-Source Edition on Windows
<para><ulink url="VOSMakeWindows">Building Virtuoso on Windows</ulink> requires some time and the user should be proficient with Windows software development.
 The build is not guaranteed to succeed out of the box.</para>
<para>Unless you plan to actually modify the Virtuoso code, we recommend using the <ulink url="VOSDownload">binary distribution</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Getting Started with the VOS Binary Distribution for Windows</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Pre-built binaries of Virtuoso 6.1.4 to 7.1.0 for Windows require the <emphasis>Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package</emphasis> be installed.
 This can be downloaded from the following locations: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=5555">32-bit Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x86)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=14632">64-bit Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x86_64)</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Pre-built binaries of Virtuoso 7.2.0 and later for Windows require the <emphasis>Microsoft Visual C++ 2012 Redistributable Package</emphasis> be installed.
 This can be downloaded from the following locations: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30679#">64-bit Microsoft Visual C++ 2012 Redistributable Package (x86_64)</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Appropriate environment variables should be set before any of the steps below -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Determine the root location for your Virtuoso installation.
 For best results, we recommend putting the ZIP (and/or the directory created upon its extraction) into the <emphasis>C:/Program Files/</emphasis> (or  <emphasis>C:/Program Files (x86)/</emphasis>, for a 32-bit Virtuoso on 64-bit Windows) directory.
 If you have installed other components from OpenLink Software, you may want to add the Virtuoso subdirectory to that directory (e.g., <emphasis>C:/Program Files/OpenLink Software/VOS7/</emphasis>).
</listitem>
<listitem>Start the System control panel (right-click <emphasis>My Computer</emphasis> and select <emphasis>Properties</emphasis>, or drill down through the <emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panels</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Administrative Tools</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis>).
</listitem>
<listitem>Click to <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis>, and create a new system environment variable called <emphasis>VIRTUOSO_HOME</emphasis>, with this path (e.g., <emphasis>C:/Program Files/OpenLink Software/VOS7/virtuoso-opensource/</emphasis>) for its value.
</listitem>
<listitem>Locate the PATH system environment variable, and click to EDIT it.
</listitem>
<listitem>Add the string below to the end of the existing PATH value.
 <emphasis><emphasis>IMPORTANT:</emphasis> Do not over-write the existing PATH value! Doing so will disrupt all use of your Windows environment.</emphasis> <programlisting>;%VIRTUOSO_HOME%/bin;%VIRTUOSO_HOME%/lib
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> or <emphasis>Exit</emphasis> buttons until you have fully exited the System control panel.
</listitem>
<listitem>The above environment variable changes will have immediate effect on any processes that start hereafter, but rebooting your Windows environment may be necessary in some situations.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Basic Installation</bridgehead>
<para>Simply unzip the <ulink url="VOSDownload">binary distribution zip file</ulink> to your chosen location (see <ulink url="#Prerequisites">Prerequisites</ulink>, above).
 This will create a directory <emphasis>virtuoso-opensource</emphasis>, containing 6 subfolders: </para>
<programlisting>bin
lib
hosting
database
vad
vsp
</programlisting><para> <emphasis> <emphasis>Note</emphasis>: The current Windows binary package is missing a php.ini file, required for PHP run-time hosting support.
 Please <ulink url="ftp://download.openlinksw.com/support/vos/php.ini">download a copy of this file</ulink>, and manually place it in the <emphasis>database</emphasis> directory.</emphasis></para>
<para>The default administrator username and password are both <emphasis>dba</emphasis>.
 We recommend immediately changing the password to secure your database.</para>
<para>By default, the Virtuoso server will listen for HTTP connections at TCP port <emphasis>8890</emphasis>, and for SQL data access (via iSQL, ODBC, JDBC, OLE DB, ADO.NET, etc.) at TCP port <emphasis>1111</emphasis>.
These ports may be changed by editing the virtuoso.ini file.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Optional -- Create and Manage Virtuoso Windows Services</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Start a CMD/DOS session (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu -&gt; <emphasis>Command Prompt</emphasis>, or run %SystemRoot%/system32/cmd.exe).
 <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> On Windows Vista and later (including Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Server 2008, etc.), you <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> right-click on the &quot;Command Prompt&quot; icon and select the &quot;Run as Administrator&quot; option; else, the CMD session will not have the privileges necessary for the following steps to succeed, even if you are logged in as a Windows Administrator.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Verify your Virtuoso binary by typing in the command: <programlisting>virtuoso-t -? 
</programlisting><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> we also provide binaries with Java (virtuoso-javavm-t) and .NET CLR (virtuoso-clr-t) hosting support, which should be substituted for virtuoso-t throughout, if such hosting support is required.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Run the following command: <programlisting>cd %VIRTUOSO_HOME%/database
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Create a new Windows Service with the following command -- <programlisting>virtuoso-t +service create +instance &quot;New Instance Name&quot; +configfile virtuoso.ini 
</programlisting><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> If you have an existing Virtuoso service, the above will replace it.
 You can preserve the existing service and add a new one with the following command variant (changing the <emphasis>+service</emphasis> argument from &quot;<emphasis>create</emphasis>&quot; to &quot;<emphasis>screate</emphasis>&quot;) --</emphasis> <programlisting>virtuoso-t +service screate +instance &quot;New Instance Name&quot; +configfile virtuoso.ini 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Once created, you can manage the Virtuoso service through the standard Windows Services Manager (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Administrative Tools</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Services</emphasis> or <emphasis>Component Services</emphasis>).
 It will be listed as <emphasis>OpenLink Virtuoso Server [Instance Name]</emphasis>.
 You can also use the CMD/DOS commands in the table below.
 Note that the <emphasis>+instance</emphasis> and <emphasis>+service</emphasis> flags may be replaced by <emphasis>-I</emphasis> and <emphasis>-S</emphasis>, respectively.

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> <emphasis>List all Virtuoso services</emphasis>   </entry><entry> virtuoso-t +service list   </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Start a Virtuoso service</emphasis>   </entry><entry> virtuoso-t +instance &quot;Instance Name&quot; +service start   </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Stop a Virtuoso service</emphasis>    </entry><entry> virtuoso-t +instance &quot;Instance Name&quot; +service stop    </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Delete a Virtuoso service</emphasis>  </entry><entry> virtuoso-t +instance &quot;Instance Name&quot; +service delete  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Optional -- Register the VOS ODBC Driver</bridgehead>
<para>For best results, we recommend that you download and install the appropriate commercial <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">Client Connectivity Kit</ulink>, which is <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VOSLicense#Client%20Protocol%20Driver%20exemptions%20from%20GPL">freely licensed for use with VOS</ulink>.</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Start a CMD/DOS session (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu -&gt; <emphasis>Command Prompt</emphasis>, or run %SystemRoot%/system32/cmd.exe).
 <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> On Windows Vista and later (including Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Server 2008, etc.), you <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> right-click on the &quot;Command Prompt&quot; icon and select the &quot;Run as Administrator&quot; option; else, the CMD session will not have the privileges necessary for the following steps to succeed, even if you are logged in as a Windows Administrator.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Run the following commands: <programlisting>cd %VIRTUOSO_HOME%/lib
regsvr32 virtodbc.dll  
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>As a result, you should see this message: <programlisting>DLLRegisterServer in virtodbc.dll succeeded.
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Optional -- Create an ODBC DSN</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Launch the ODBC Administrator (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu -&gt; <emphasis>Control panels</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Administrative Tools</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Data Sources (ODBC)</emphasis>).
</listitem>
<listitem>For most purposes, click to the <emphasis>System DSN</emphasis> tab.
 <emphasis>User DSNs</emphasis> are not typically necessary.
</listitem>
<listitem>See <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/odbcimplementation.html">this document</ulink>.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Virtuoso Conductor -- the HTTP Browser-based Virtuoso Administration Tool</bridgehead>
<para>The Virtuoso Conductor is a HTTP-based administration tool, included by default in all Virtuoso instances.
 It can be accessed at the URL: </para>
<programlisting>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/conductor
</programlisting><para>For instance -- </para>
<programlisting>http://localhost:8890/conductor
</programlisting><para>-- or -- </para>
<programlisting>http://my-virtuoso-host.example.com:8890/conductor
</programlisting><para> The Conductor can then be used to install other Virtuoso VAD applications available by navigating to the &quot;System Admin -&gt; Packages&quot; tab which presents you with a list of available Virtuoso VAD application packages to install, selecting those you require and install, at which point they will then become accessible as part of your Virtuoso server instance.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> iSQL -- the Virtuoso Interactive SQL tool</bridgehead>
<para>To connect with the Virtuoso Interactive SQL tool (isql), run the following command from your DOS prompt: </para>
<programlisting>isql 1111 dba dba
</programlisting><para>You should get a response like this -- </para>
<programlisting>Connected to OpenLink Virtuoso
Driver: 05.00.3028 OpenLink Virtuoso ODBC Driver
OpenLink Interactive SQL (Virtuoso), version 0.9849b.
Type HELP; for help and EXIT; to exit.
SQL&gt; 
</programlisting><para> iSQL has a number of built in commands, like tables -- </para>
<programlisting>SQL&gt; tables;
Showing SQLTables of tables like &#39;NULL.NULL.NULL&#39;, tabletype/colname like &#39;NULL&#39;

TABLE_QUALIFIER  TABLE_OWNER  TABLE_NAME                 TABLE_TYPE    REMARKS
VARCHAR          VARCHAR      VARCHAR                    VARCHAR       VARCHAR
_______________________________________________________________________________

DB               DBA          ADMIN_SESSION              SYSTEM TABLE  NULL
DB               DBA          ADM_OPT_ARRAY_TO_RS_PVIEW  SYSTEM TABLE  NULL
DB               DBA          ADM_XML_VIEWS              SYSTEM TABLE  NULL
.
.
.
SQL&gt;
</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Documentation, Tutorials, and More</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Overall Virtuoso Documentation</bridgehead>
<para>Bundled documentation may be found at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/doc/html</emphasis>.
 More recent updates are available online, at <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso">Virtuoso Product Manual</ulink> and <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VOSIndex">Open Source Edition Docs</ulink>.</para>
<para>Bundled tutorials may be found at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/tutorial</emphasis>.
 These are also available online, at <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/tutorial">http://demo.openlinksw.com/tutorial</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> SPARQL Demos</bridgehead>
<para>A full SPARQL demo may be found <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/sparql_demo/">online</ulink>, or locally at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/sparql_demo</emphasis>.</para>
<para>Virtuoso&#39;s built in SPARQL endpoint is at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/sparql</emphasis>.</para>
<para>The iSPARQL Query-By-Example tool (if installed) will be at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/isparql</emphasis>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> ODS Applications Suite</bridgehead>
<para>The <ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/">OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS)</ulink> applications suite includes a broad collection of distributed collaborative applications covering: blogs, wikis, shared bookmarks, file management, calendaring, email, photo galleries, discussion forums, polls, and more.
 Once installed, ODS applications will be available at <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/ods</emphasis>.</para>
<para>See <ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/OdsConfig">Getting Started with ODS</ulink> for more on setting up ODS.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">BPEL Process Manager</bridgehead>
<para>To experiment with the BPEL Process Manager, visit <emphasis>http://&lt;virtuoso-host-FQDN-or-IP-address&gt;:&lt;HTTP-port&gt;/BPELGUI</emphasis>.</para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>