<docbook><section><title>Wiki</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Wiki Engines and Platform</bridgehead>
<para>Wikis are variations of the conventioal Web Sites that allows collaborative maintenance of content (additions, deletions, and updates) by known or anonymous authors.
 They provide an agile platform for &quot;rapid fire&#39; content production and dissemination.</para>
<para>Wiki content editing is typically performed via a browser using the Wiki Engine specific Markup Language.
 These engine specific Markup Languages are shorthand style languages that are post processed by a Wiki Engine into  (X)HTML when Wiki documents are retrieved by HTTP based User Agents (e.g Web Browsers).</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Wiki Engine Benefits</bridgehead>
<para>Wikis are knowledge creation, persistence, dissemination tools.
 They facilitate the construction and standardization of vocabulary across a collection of articles (typically called a Web or Cluster).
 In a sense, they create a body of broadly accessible knowledge.</para>
<para>Wikis can be categorized as knowledge engineering tools that provide a productive platform for knowledge creation and dissemination to knowledge workers.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Wiki Engine Comparisons</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://www.wikimatrix.org/">Wiki Engine Discovery and Evaluation Service from Wiki Matrix</ulink></listitem>
</orderedlist><para>-- <ulink url="MainKingsleyIdehen">KingsleyIdehen</ulink> - 28 Mar 2006</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryGlossary">CategoryGlossary</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>