<docbook><section><title>WikiFAQ</title><para>  </para>
<title>ODS Wiki: FAQ</title>ODS Wiki: FAQ
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What is ODS Wiki?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Wiki is an integrated collaborative web-based user interface that allows you to edit, delete, modify, store and share content using links known as <ulink url="WikiWords">WikiWords</ulink>.
 ODS Wiki can be used to collaborate on documents, track projects and workflows as well as web sites.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is a <ulink url="WikiWord">WikiWord</ulink>?</bridgehead>
<para>A <ulink url="WikiWord">WikiWord</ulink> is a name or link that directs you to other topics in the wiki.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How to edit a topic?</bridgehead>
<para>You can edit content by selecting the `edit&#39; link at the bottom of the topic and by entering test in the form provided.
 You can create or modify wiki content with the default or ODS WYSIWYG editor.
 Wiki fully supports Twiki-based markup and text formatting.
 A summary of this markup is provided on the edit screen for quick access.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I insert a graphic images or files using WYSIWYG?</bridgehead>
<para>Edit an existing wiki or create a new wiki topic and then select the WSYWIG editor.
 On the left hand menu enter in image class and URL or <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> location containing the image and then select the &quot;Insert image&quot; button.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I link to other topics?</bridgehead>
<para>You can add links by adding Wikiwords or using Twiki markup to add a link.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I attach documents to a topic?</bridgehead>
<para>Navigate to the wiki topic by searching for a topic; view a list of topics from the index or by clicking on breadcrumb link.
 At the bottom of the desired topic, select the &quot;Attach&quot; Link.
 In the attach form enter the name of the file or select the &quot;Browse&quot; button to locate the file you want to attach, then select the file.
 Optionally add a check-mark to add a link in the wiki topic to this file or add a comment.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I delete a Wiki topic?</bridgehead>
<para>To delete a wiki topic navigate to the wiki topic and select the &quot;Maintenance&quot; link at the bottom.
 In the form provided review or change the topic name and select the &quot;Delete&quot; button, and then select the &quot;Yes&quot; button to confirm the topics deletion.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I rename a Wiki topic?</bridgehead>
<para>To rename a wiki topic navigate to the wiki topic and select the &quot;Maintenance&quot; link at the bottom.
 In the form provided review or change the topic name and select the &quot;Rename&quot; button, and then select the &quot;Yes&quot; button to confirm renaming the topic.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I change the parent topic for a Wiki topic?</bridgehead>
<para>To change a wiki topic parent topic, navigate to the wiki topic and select the &quot;Maintenance&quot; link at the bottom.
 In the form provided review or change the topic name, choose from the list of available parent topics and select the &quot;Set New Parent&quot; button, then select the &quot;Yes&quot; button to confirm the topic change.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Who can access my Wiki?</bridgehead>
<para>A Wiki instance can be set public, for ODS members or private during wiki creation or modified later through ODS application membership.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I lock Main or my <ulink url="WikiHome">WikiHome</ulink> but allow sub topics to be edited?</bridgehead>
<para>Any wiki topic can be locked from editing.
 To lock a wiki topic, navigate to the topic, select the edit link below and in the edit form select the &quot;Preview&quot; button, then click the &quot;Save&quot; button without marking the &quot;Release Lock&quot; check-box.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I publish my wiki on other formats?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, you can choose to publish the wiki as a web site or in Docbook format by selecting from the publishing options at the bottom of the topic.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I subscribe to changes via an RSS or Atom feed?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, wiki topics can be syndicated in RSS, Atom, and RDF formats.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Where is the content in my Wiki stored?</bridgehead>
<para>All Wiki content is stored in <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>.
 All wiki documents can be accessed via ODS Briefcase under DAV/dataspace/user/wiki/[instance].</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Does Wiki save all revisions of my wiki topics?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, ODS Wiki saves all revisions and tracks differences between edit versions.
 Versions can be viewed at the bottom by selecting the version number next the &quot;Revisions&quot; label on a given Wiki topic.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I search Wiki?</bridgehead>
<para>You can perform a simple keyword search on the search input field at the top.
 Optionally, you can select the Advanced link and enter a list of keyword, enter an expression or a list of tags.
 Search results include the Name, Size, Owner and Date of the matching wiki topics.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Can I change or customize the Wiki Skin?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, you can choose from a list of templates and skins by selecting the &quot;Cluster Settings&quot; link at the top.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I view a global history or log of changes in Wiki?</bridgehead>
<para>You can the view the &quot;Change Log&quot; by selecting the default parent [username]<ulink url="WikiWelcomeVisitors">WelcomeVisitors</ulink> topic.
 The change log provides a list of topics, actions performed, change date and the name of the person who made the change.
 Other summary reports are available under the topic <ulink url="MainWelcomeVisitors">WelcomeVisitors</ulink> that includes the wiki owner, wiki members, a list of the top topics and contributors as well a summary of tagged information.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>