<docbook><section><title>VirtInteractSpongerMiddlewareRESTPatterns</title><title>Interacting with Sponger Middleware via RESTful Patterns</title>Interacting with Sponger Middleware via RESTful Patterns
<para>Sponger functionality can be exploited via RESTful interaction via a variety of URL patterns.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Prequisites</bridgehead>
<para>Ensure you have the <ulink url="https://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">cartridges_dav.vad</ulink> package installed.
 Once in place, the following URL pattern becomes functional:  &#39;/about/[rdf|html]/&#39;.
 Thus, if you&#39;ve installed Virtuoso on the host example.com, with HTTP listener enabled on port 8080 you would use patterns: http://example.com:8080/about/[rdf|html]/.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Example</bridgehead>
<para>The following URLs (using the live Sponger instance behind our URIBurner service) returns a Linked Data resource that describes the musician John Cale, based on data from the <ulink url="MusicBrainz">MusicBrainz</ulink> database, optionally rendered as RDF or HTML formats respectively.
 (The actual description data is exposed in HTML format through value of the foaf:primaryTopic property.) </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://uriburner.com/about/rdf/http://musicbrainz.org/artist/72c090b6-a68e-4cb9-b330-85278681a714.html">http://uriburner.com/about/rdf/http://musicbrainz.org/artist/72c090b6-a68e-4cb9-b330-85278681a714.html</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://uriburner.com/about/html/http://musicbrainz.org/artist/72c090b6-a68e-4cb9-b330-85278681a714.html">http://uriburner.com/about/html/http://musicbrainz.org/artist/72c090b6-a68e-4cb9-b330-85278681a714.html</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">URL Patterns Reference</bridgehead>
<para>The following table presents a list of the supported URL parameters:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry><emphasis>refresh</emphasis></entry><entry>clean </entry><entry><emphasis>Usage</emphasis>: for overwriting. The &#39;clean&#39; usage explicitly clears the graph i.e. will cause the Sponger to drop cache even if it is marked to be in the fly.Thus, if fetched cache by some reason is left in some inconsistent state like shutdown during Network Resource fetching, then &#39;clean&#39; is required as it doesn&#39;t check cache state.<emphasis>Note</emphasis>: must be used with caution as other threads may be doing fetching of network resources at same time. </entry><entry> <ulink url="http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/html/http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/id/entity/http/twitter.com/kidehen?@Lookup@=&amp;refresh=clean">Explicitly clear the graph</ulink></entry></row>
<row><entry><emphasis>sponger:get</emphasis></entry><entry>add </entry><entry><emphasis>Usage</emphasis>: Add new triples to named graphs, progressively. This is the default value for the parameter sponger:get. May be used together with refresh=&lt;seconds&gt; to overwrite the expiration in the cache. </entry><entry> <ulink url="http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/html/http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/id/entity/http/twitter.com/kidehen?sponger:get=add&amp;refresh=10">Add new triples and refresh on every 10 seconds</ulink></entry></row>
<row><entry><emphasis>sponger:get</emphasis></entry><entry>soft </entry><entry><emphasis>Usage</emphasis>: Network Resource Fetch data subject to cache invalidation mode and associated rules of instance. May be used together with refresh=&lt;seconds&gt; to overwrite the expiration in the cache. </entry><entry> <ulink url="http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/html/http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/id/entity/http/twitter.com/kidehen?sponger:get=soft&amp;refresh=10">Network Resource Fetch data with option <emphasis>soft</emphasis> and refresh on every 10 seconds</ulink></entry></row>
<row><entry><emphasis>sponger:get</emphasis></entry><entry> replace </entry><entry><emphasis>Usage</emphasis>: Replace subject to cache invalidation mode and rules, but coverage includes non fetched triples if such exist in a given named graph. may be used together with refresh=&lt;seconds&gt; to overwrite the expiration in the cache. </entry><entry> <ulink url="http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/html/http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/about/id/entity/http/twitter.com/kidehen?sponger:get=replace&amp;refresh=10">Replace data and refresh on every 10 seconds</ulink></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtSponger">Virtuoso Linked Data Middleware (aka. &quot;Sponger&quot;)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSources">Prebuilt Sponger Cartridges</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SPARQLSponger">Sponger Exploitation via SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSourcesMetaRESTExamples">Interacting with Sponger Meta Cartridge via RESTful Patterns</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeRDFExtractor">Sponger Cartridges &amp; RDF Transformation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="RDFMappers">Extending SPARQL IRI Dereferencing via Sponger</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeProgrammersGuide">Sponger Programmer&#39;s Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtProgrammerGuideRDFCartridge">Create RDF Custom Cartridge Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeSupportedDataSources">OpenLink-supplied Sponger Cartridges</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerACL">Guide for Protecting Your Sponger Instance via Access Control List (ACL)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/virtuososponger.html">Virtuoso Documentation Chapter re. Sponger</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeProgrammersGuide">Sponger Programmer&#39;s Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/VirtSpongerWhitePaper.html">Technical White Paper</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>