<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDeleteTriplesWithBlanknodes</title><title> Can I Delete Triples containing Blank Nodes?</title> Can I Delete Triples containing Blank Nodes?
<para>There are two ways to delete a particular blank node: </para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Refer to it indirectly, using some of its properties, or </listitem>
<listitem>Discover and refer to it by its internal &quot;serial number&quot; or ID (in Virtuoso, bif:iri_id_XXX, a long integer).
 <emphasis><emphasis>Important Note</emphasis>: IDs of bnodes will always vary from server to server, and often from run-to-run on the same server, so it is usually better to identify bnodes by properties than ID.</emphasis></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> How to Delete Triples containing Blank Nodes</bridgehead>
<para>Assume the following sample scenario:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Clear the graph: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  CLEAR GRAPH &lt;http://sample/&gt;;

Done. -- 4 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Insert three blank nodes with two related triples each: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  INSERT IN GRAPH &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
    { 
      []  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o1a&gt;
            ,  &lt;o1b&gt;
    . []  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o2a&gt;
            ,  &lt;o2b&gt;
    . []  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o3a&gt;
            ,  &lt;o3b&gt;
    };

Done. -- 15 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Delete one pair of triples: <programlisting>SPARQL WITH &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  DELETE
    { ?s  ?p   ?o } 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p   ?o
       ;  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o1a&gt;
    }

Done. -- 7 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Ensure that we still have two bnodes, two triple per bnode: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  SELECT * 
  FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s ?p ?o 
    };

s                p        o
VARCHAR          VARCHAR  VARCHAR
_________________________________

nodeID://b10006  p        o3a
nodeID://b10006  p        o3b
nodeID://b10007  p        o2a
nodeID://b10007  p        o2b

4 Rows. -- 4 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Every node in the Virtuoso store, whether &quot;named&quot; or &quot;blank&quot; (&quot;unnamed&quot;), is identified internally by a long integer: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  SELECT  (&lt;LONG::bif:iri_id_num&gt;(?s)) AS ?s_num ,
                                          ?p     ,
                                          ?o 
  FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p  ?o 
    };

s_num                p       o
INTEGER              VARCHAR VARCHAR
_____________________________

4611686018427397910  p       o3a
4611686018427397910  p       o3b
4611686018427397911  p       o2a
4611686018427397911  p       o2b

4 Rows. -- 5 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>The integer can be converted back to internal identifier.
 Say, here we try to delete a triple that does not exist (even if the ID integer is valid): <programlisting>SPARQL 
  DELETE FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt;
    { 
      `bif:iri_id_from_num(4611686018427397911)`  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o3a&gt; 
    };

Done. -- 5 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Should have no effect, because the &quot;46..11&quot; IRI has &lt;o2a&gt; and &lt;o2b&gt;, and was not requested &lt;o3a&gt;: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  SELECT * 
  FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p  ?o 
    };
s                p         o
VARCHAR          VARCHAR   VARCHAR
__________________________________

nodeID://b10006  p         o3a
nodeID://b10006  p         o3b
nodeID://b10007  p         o2a
nodeID://b10007  p         o2b

4 Rows. -- 5 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Now let&#39;s try to delete a triple that does actually exist.
 Note the use of backquotes to insert an expression into the graph template: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  DELETE FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt;
    { 
      `bif:iri_id_from_num(4611686018427397911)`  &lt;p&gt;  &lt;o2a&gt; 
    };

Done. -- 4 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>This time, there&#39;s an effect: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  SELECT * 
  FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s ?p ?o 
    };
s                p        o
VARCHAR          VARCHAR  VARCHAR
_________________

nodeID://b10006  p        o3a
nodeID://b10006  p        o3b
nodeID://b10007  p        o2b

3 Rows. -- 2 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Now we&#39;ll delete everything related to nodeID://b10006 subject: <programlisting>SPARQL 
  WITH &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  DELETE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p  ?o 
    } 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p  ?o
    . FILTER ( ?s = bif:iri_id_from_num(4611686018427397910) )
    };

Done. -- 18 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>This should delete two of the previous three triples, leaving one remaining triple: <programlisting>SQL&gt; SPARQL 
  SELECT * 
  FROM &lt;http://sample/&gt; 
  WHERE 
    { 
      ?s  ?p  ?o 
    };
s                 p         o
VARCHAR           VARCHAR   VARCHAR
___________________________________

nodeID://b10007   p         o2b

1 Rows. -- 4 msec.
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparql.html">Virtuoso Documentation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples14">Deleting triples from a graph</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDeleteLargeGraphs">Deleting triples from a &quot;Large&quot; graph</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>