<docbook><section><title>VirtCartConfigCrunchbase</title><title>Crunchbase Cartridge - Configuration Guidelines</title>Crunchbase Cartridge - Configuration Guidelines
<emphasis>Contents</emphasis> <para><ulink url="http://www.crunchbase.com/">Crunchbase</ulink> is a free database of technology companies, people, and investors.</para>
<para>The Sponger extractor cartridge for Crunchbase exposes Crunchbase entries as Linked Data.
 A corresponding meta-cartridge identifies company and people names in Linked Data and performs lookups against Crunchbase to further enrich this data with Crunchbase information.</para>
<para>The Crunchbase extractor and meta cartridges both require a Crunchbase API key.
 The same API key can be used for both cartridges.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Obtaining an API Key</bridgehead>
<para>To obtain an API key: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to the <ulink url="http://developer.crunchbase.com/">Crunchbase Developer Portal</ulink>  and <ulink url="http://developer.crunchbase.com/member/register">register for a user account</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>After registering as a user, <ulink url="http://developer.crunchbase.com/apps/register">apply for an API key</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the &quot;Crunchbase Application Registration&quot; form: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>You can use any application name acceptable to Crunchbase, e.g.
 &quot;Virtuoso Sponger&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Under the section &quot;Select which Web APIs this application will use&quot;, ensure the &quot;Issue a new key for Crunchbase API&quot; checkbox is checked.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>After clicking the &quot;Register your application&quot; button, your new Crunchbase API key will be displayed.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configuring the Crunchbase extractor and meta cartridges</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>In the Conductor UI, click on the &quot;Linked Data&quot; tab, then the &quot;Sponger&quot; tab.
</listitem>
<listitem>Under the &quot;Extractor Cartridges&quot; tab, select &quot;Crunchbase&quot; from the list of cartridges.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the cartridge configuration form at the bottom of the page, enter your Crunchbase API key in the  &quot;API Key&quot; field, then confirm the update.
</listitem>
<listitem>The Crunchbase meta cartridge is configured in a similar way to the extractor cartridge.
 Select the &quot;Meta Cartridges&quot; tab, select &quot;Crunchbase&quot; in the list of meta cartridges, then enter the Crunchbase API key in the &quot;API Key&quot; field.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>