<docbook><section><title>VOSPressRelease20060411</title><para> DE3A857A5FFB11DA923AF0924C194AED Cluster Main </para>
<title>OpenLink Releases Technology to Accelerate Exploitation of Web 2.0 and Semantic Web</title><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Releases Technology to Accelerate Exploitation of Web 2.0 and Semantic Web
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">BURLINGTON, Mass., April 11 <emphasis>PRNewswire</emphasis></bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software, Inc., technology leader in the development and deployment of secure, high-performance universal data access middleware, announces the immediate availability of the Open Source Edition of its industry-acclaimed Universal Server, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Virtuoso.
 The new product release provides a cross-platform workbench for exploiting recent technology advances in areas such as Web Services, RDF Data Management, XML Data Management, Object-Relational Data Management, and Unified Storage.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Leadership Inspiring an Industry</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Web 2.0 and the burgeoning Semantic Web demand new thinking regarding the architecture of application development and deployment platforms.
 These technology frontiers require loose coupling and zero-vendor-lock-in at all levels to fulfill their potential&quot;, said Kingsley Idehen, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software&#39;s President &amp; CEO.</para>
<para>&quot;Our decision to take Virtuoso Open Source is our contribution to accelerating the Web 2.0 to Data Web transition at both the Intranet and Internet levels&quot;, he added.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">New Generation Server Architecture for Next Generation of Data Web Solutions</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Virtuoso includes:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>SPARQL compliant RDF Triple Store </listitem>
<listitem>SQL-200n Object-Relational Database Engine (SQL, XML, and Free Text) </listitem>
<listitem>BPEL Server and Enterprise Service Bus (integrated) </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> and Native File Server </listitem>
<listitem>Web Application Server (supporting PHP, Perl, Python, ASP.NET, JSP) </listitem>
<listitem>Runtime Hosting for Microsoft .NET, Mono, and Java</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Broad Platform Support</bridgehead>
<para>The new release is available in source code and binary release forms across Linux, Mac OS X, <ulink url="FreeBSD">FreeBSD</ulink>, Solaris, and other UNIX platforms.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Extensive Industry Standard Support</bridgehead>
<para>Industry standards supported by Virtuoso includes SQL, ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, OLEDB, SPARQL, XQuery, XPath, XSLT, <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>, HTTP, SOAP, BPEL, WS-*, UDDI, NNTP, and more.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">About <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software is a privately held software company with offices in the U.S.A., United Kingdom, Nigeria, and Bulgaria.
 It has been the leading provider and technology innovator in the universal data access middleware market since 1993, and over 10,000 companies currently use its products worldwide.</para>
<para>Additional information on <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software can be obtained from the web site:</para>
<para>    <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>