<docbook><section><title>-34000</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (U)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">User does not have permission to use one of the flags given.
 (-34000)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;E_US0002 User does not have permission to use one of the flags given.
 (-34000)&quot; is a permissions error that occurs when users attempt to query Ingres databases.
 To resolve this problem, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains your OpenLink server components.</para><para>2.
 Type &#39;bash&#39; or &#39;sh&#39; to open a Bash or Bourne shell.</para><para>3.
 cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>4.
 Run the following command:</para><programlisting>oplrqb -fy
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Use chmod to enable your Ingres user to run oplrqb.</para><para>6.
 Use chmod to enable your Ingres user to read oplrqb.ini.</para><para>7.
 Use chmod to enable your Ingres user to write to oplrqb.log.</para><para>8.
 Run this command:</para><programlisting>cd ..
</programlisting><para> 9.
 Use chmod to enable your Ingres user to execute openlink.sh.</para><para>10.
 su to your Ingres uid.</para><para>11.
 Run the Ingres user&#39;s .profile.</para><para>12.
 Run the following command from the root of your OpenLink installation:</para><programlisting>. ./openlink.sh
</programlisting><para> 13.
 cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>14.
 Run this command:</para><programlisting>./oplrqb +loglevel 7
</programlisting><para> 15.
 Test.
</para></section></docbook>