<docbook><section><title>AmbiguousColumn324</title><para> </para><title>Error message: Ambiguous column (&lt;column_name&gt;). (-324)</title>Error message: <computeroutput>Ambiguous column (&lt;column_name&gt;). (-324)</computeroutput>
<para>If you encounter the Informix-specific &quot;Ambiguous column&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Make sure the problem query executes successfully in the Informix native <computeroutput>dbaccess</computeroutput> program.
</listitem>
<listitem> Place backslashes in front of any underscores that appear in the query, to escape those underscores.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use pass-through queries with fully qualified field names when Microsoft Access is involved.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using Multi-Tier, make the following change to the Broker Rulebook and test: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the computer that hosts your OpenLink server components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the active Rulebook (e.g., <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>) in a text editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the relevant <computeroutput>[Environment ___]</computeroutput> section that corresponds to the acgtive database agent, e.g., <computeroutput>[Environment INFORMIX2000]</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the following parameter: <computeroutput>DELIMIDENT = Y</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart your Request Broker.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><para>Other known possible causes of this problem include the use of ADO or Microsoft Access &#39;97.
</para></section></docbook>