<docbook><section><title>BadSwapBlock</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (M)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">MM- Bad swap block (7707)</bridgehead>
<para> The SQL-92 sql server process needed to use SQL temp tables while executing a query or command.
 Temp tables are used for aggregation, sorting, update statistics usage, etc.
 The sql server needed to write a disk block for some temp table but failed in the IO.
 Among the possible reasons are:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Disk space not available in chosen work directory.
 Chosen work directory is $WRKDIR if defined, else server&#39;s working directory at startup.
</listitem>
<listitem> IO failure on disk.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Multi-Tier users can rectify this probelm by takind the following action:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains the OpenLink server components.
2.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file that resides in the bin sub-directory of the OpeNLink installation.
3.
 Locate the [generic] section that corresponds to your OpenLink database agent; e.g., [generic_prs91].
4.
 Locate the Directory parameter.
5.
 Pass a new temp directory to this parameter.
6.
 Save these changes and exit oplrqb.ini.
7.
 Restart or reinitialize (opslhut +reinit) the Request Broker service.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>