<docbook><section><title>ClassOPLPoolStatistic</title><para>11.11.8.
 Class <ulink url="OPLPoolStatistic">OPLPoolStatistic</ulink> <ulink url="OPLPoolStatistic">OPLPoolStatistic</ulink> Classes <ulink url="OPLPoolStatistic">OPLPoolStatistic</ulink> 11.11.8.1.
 Synopsis</para><para>public class <ulink url="OPLPoolStatistic">OPLPoolStatistic</ulink> implements Cloneable {   <emphasis> Public Methods   public int getHits();   public int getMisses();   public long getMaxWaitTime();   public long getMinWaitTime();   public long getCumWaitTime();   public int getCacheSize();   public int getConnsInUse();   public int getConnsUnUsed();   public String getName();   public String toString(); }</emphasis></para><para> Inheritance Path java.lang.Object
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> openlink.javax.OPLPoolStatistic</para><para> 11.11.8.2.
 Members 11.11.8.2.1.
 Method getCacheSize() getCacheSize Methods getCacheSize</para><para>Synopsis: public int getCacheSize();</para><para> Returns the connection pool size.</para><para>11.11.8.2.2.
 Method getConnsInUse() getConnsInUse Methods getConnsInUse</para><para>Synopsis: public int getConnsInUse();</para><para> Returns the amount of used connections in the connection pool size.</para><para>11.11.8.2.3.
 Method getConnsUnUsed() getConnsUnUsed Methods getConnsUnUsed</para><para>Synopsis: public int getConnsUnUsed();</para><para> Returns the amount of unused connections in the connection pool size.</para><para>11.11.8.2.4.
 Method getCumWaitTime() getCumWaitTime Methods getCumWaitTime</para><para>Synopsis: public long getCumWaitTime();</para><para> Returns the sum of all waiting time for the connection pool.</para><para>11.11.8.2.5.
 Method getHits() getHits Methods getHits</para><para>Synopsis: public int getHits();</para><para> Returns the amount of the connection pool hits.</para><para>11.11.8.2.6.
 Method getMaxWaitTime() getMaxWaitTime Methods getMaxWaitTime</para><para>Synopsis: public long getMaxWaitTime();</para><para> Returns the maximal waiting time for the connection pool.</para><para>11.11.8.2.7.
 Method getMinWaitTime() getMinWaitTime Methods getMinWaitTime</para><para>Synopsis: public long getMinWaitTime();</para><para> Returns the minimal waiting time for the connection pool.</para><para>11.11.8.2.8.
 Method getMisses() getMisses Methods getMisses</para><para>Synopsis: public int getMisses();</para><para> Returns the amount of the connection pool misses.</para><para>11.11.8.2.9.
 Method getName() getName Methods getName</para><para>Synopsis: public String getName();</para><para> Returns the name of <ulink url="ConectionPoolDataSource">ConectionPoolDataSource</ulink>.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>