<docbook><section><title>ConfigureDataEncryptionNon-SSL</title><para>&quot;</para><para>OpenLink&#39;s Multi-Tier Universal Data Access solution permits simplex and duplex encryption, for maximum flexibility according to the user&#39;s needs.
 (Single-Tier does not presently support encrypted communications.)</para>
<para>Simplex is one-way, encrypting all communications sent from the OpenLink Generic Client to the OpenLink Server (Request Broker or Database Agent), or from the Server to the Client.
 Duplex simply combines these two, resulting in fully secure communications between OpenLink Client and Server.
 </para>
<para>Data encryption will have some impact on performance because additional work is being performed before the data is presented to the calling application.
 There is always some trade-off between security and speed.
 However, we have optimized our encryption algorithms to minimize this overhead.
 </para>
<para><emphasis>Client configuration</emphasis></para> <para>Client data encryption is configured through the<computeroutput> OpenLink Client Configuration Utility</computeroutput>, on Windows and Mac OS, or through the HTTP-based<computeroutput>  OpenLink ODBC Administrator</computeroutput>, on Unix.
 The<computeroutput> DataEncryption</computeroutput> value in the<computeroutput> odbc.ini</computeroutput> file&#39;s<computeroutput> [Communications]</computeroutput> stanza may also be manually edited on Mac OS or Unix; on Windows, this setting is found in the Registry at<computeroutput> HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\OPENLINK.INI\Communications\DataEncryption</computeroutput>.
 </para> <para>This section key can be set to<computeroutput> Yes</computeroutput> or<computeroutput> 1</computeroutput> to enable data encryption, and to<computeroutput> No</computeroutput> or<computeroutput> 0</computeroutput> to disable it.
 </para>
<para>When enabled, this setting will cause all communications from the Client to the Request Broker or Database Agent to be encrypted.
 <emphasis>This does <emphasis>not</emphasis> cause data returned from the Request Broker or Database Agent to be encrypted.</emphasis></para>
<para> </para><para><emphasis>Server configuration</emphasis></para> <para>Request Broker and Database Agent data encryption is configured through the<computeroutput> [Communications]</computeroutput> stanza of the Rulebook,<computeroutput> oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>.
 The HTTP-based<computeroutput> OpenLink Admin Assistant</computeroutput> may be used for this configuration (<computeroutput>Server Components Administration &gt;&gt; Request Broker Administration &gt;&gt; Configure Request Broker&#39;s Parameters by Form &gt;&gt; Communications Parameters</computeroutput>), or the Rulebook (<computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>) may be manually edited.
 </para><para>The<computeroutput> DataEncryption</computeroutput> key should be set to<computeroutput> Yes</computeroutput> or<computeroutput> 1</computeroutput> to enable data encryption.
 To disable data encryption, use <computeroutput> No</computeroutput> or<computeroutput> 0</computeroutput>.
 </para>
<para>When enabled, this setting will cause all communications from the Request Broker or Database Agent to the Client to be encrypted.
 <emphasis>This does <emphasis>not</emphasis> cause data returned from the Client to be encrypted.</emphasis></para> 
</section></docbook>