<docbook><section><title>ConfigureIntersolv,MerantOrDataDirectDriverManagersToUseOpenLinkDrivers</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure Intersolv, Merant or DataDirect Driver Managers to Use OpenLink Drivers</bridgehead>
<para>You may configure the Intersolv, Merant or DataDirect Driver Manager to use OpenLink drivers.
 To proceed, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Locate and open the Driver Manager&#39;s odbc.ini file.
2.
 Locate the [ODBC Data Sources] portion of the file.
3.
 Add your DSN to the list.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[ODBC Data Sources]
OpenLink = OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Create a standard OpenLink DSN in this odbc.ini file.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver          = /home/openlink/lib/oplodbc.so.1
Host            = saturnus
ServerType      = Informix 7.3
FetchBufferSize = 99
UserName        = informix
Password        = ol_informix
Database        = stores7
ReadOnly        = no
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save your changes and exit the odbc.ini file.
6.
 Search for the Driver Manager&#39;s odbcinst.ini file.
7.
 If does not exist, create one.
8.
 Add the following entry to the odbcinst.ini file:</para><programlisting>[OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver] 
APILevel=1 
ConnectFunctions=YYN 
Driver=/usr/openlink/lib/oplodbc.sl.1 
DriverODBCVer=02.50 
FileUsage=0 
SQLLevel=1 
</programlisting><para> 9.
 Save your changes and exit the file.
10.
 Test.
</para></section></docbook>