<docbook><section><title>ConfigureIngresVnodeUnix</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure an Ingres vnode (Unix)</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to configure an Ingres vnode on Unix and Linux operating systems:</para><para>The Ingres native client must connect to the target Ingres database.
 Use the following instructions to configure your Ingres native client for database connectivity.</para><para>1.
 Login to the Unix machine that hosts your Ingres native client.</para><para>2.
 su to your ingres user.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>su - ingres</computeroutput></para><para>3.
 Execute the .profile associated with the ingres user.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>. ./.profile</computeroutput></para><para>4.
 cd into $II_SYSTEM/ingres/bin.</para><para> <computeroutput>cd $II_SYSTEM/ingres/bin</computeroutput></para><para>5.
 Execute the netutil command.</para><para> <computeroutput>./netutil</computeroutput></para><para>6.
 Use the Create option to create a new virtual node.</para><para>7.
 Provide a meaningful name for your virtual node.</para><para>8.
 Select between the Global and Private node options.</para><para>9.
 Provide the username associated with your Ingres database.</para><para>10.
 Enter the password associated with your Ingres database.</para><para>11.
 Re-enter the password associated with your Ingres database.</para><para>12.
 Use F1 or other suitable key to access the bottom menu options.</para><para>13.
 Use the Save options to save your new virtual node.</para><para>14.
 Provide your machine&#39;s network address.</para><para>15.
 Provide your machine&#39;s network protocol (tcp/ip).</para><para>16.
 Provide your Ingres  DBMS&#39;s Listen Address; e.g., II.</para><para>17.
 Use F1 or other suitable key to access the bottom menu options.</para><para>18.
 Use the Save option to save your node edits.</para><para>19.
 Use F1 or other suitable key to access the bottom menu options.</para><para>20.
 Use the Test option to test your new virtual node.
 (Be sure your virtual node is highlighted.)</para><para>21.
 Hit the Enter key.</para><para>22.
 Type End.
</para></section></docbook>