<docbook><section><title>CreateSilentInstallers</title><para>Can be done for UDA thru 5.2</para>
<para>InstallShield makes it possible</para>
<para>article based on <ulink url="http://support.mobileautomation.com/support/tsarticle.asp?tsid=277">http://support.mobileautomation.com/support/tsarticle.asp?tsid=277</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Issue:</bridgehead> <para>Any application can easily be made into an unattended and silent installation if it&#39;s setup install program is based on &#39;InstallShield&#39;.
 InstallShield is an industry standard installation packaging system for initially installing many programs.</para>
<para>To do this you would use a built in function of &lt;nopInstallshield which allows you to create an answer file (ISS).
 This file would be create by walking through a real installation on a test PC and literally remembering all the selections you make as you go through the install.
 These settings would then be saved to an answer file (setup.iss) which is created by default in the WINNT or Windows directory.</para>
<para>You can then re-execute the setup.exe installation by simply pointing to the setup.iss answer file as an option.
 InstallShield will silently walk through the installation using all of your saved options and settings.</para>
<para>It is also possible to perform a silent uninstall using a similar trick.</para>
<para>Use the following command line options to accomplish this task.</para>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Resolution:</bridgehead> <para>Install shield options</para><blockquote><para>setup.exe -r     will create answer file</para>
<para>setup.exe -s -a /s /f1setup.iss     will execute the silent install</para>
<para>setup.iss will be created in the Winnt directory</para><para />
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">To Uninstall</bridgehead>
<para>Example:</para> <blockquote>&quot;C:\WINDOWS\ISUNINST.EXE&quot; -y -a -m -f &quot;C:\Program Files\Path To\DeIsL1.isu&quot;</blockquote>
<para>You will need to adjust the path of the ISU file for your particular application.</para> 
</blockquote></section></docbook>