<docbook><section><title>CTL3D32DLLWhichHasNotBeenCorrectlyInstalled</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (T)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">This application uses CTL3D32.DLL, which has not been correctly installed</bridgehead>
<para> Some customers may experience this error message if they use our drivers with FileMaker Pro.
 The error is a result of an older version of the CTL3D32.DLL that is installed into FileMaker&#39;s directory.</para><para>The .DLL appears to have the same version number and the same file size as the one in your <computeroutput>%SystemRoot%\SYSTEM32</computeroutput> directory, but its creation date is typically much older.
 This version is older than the version that OpenLink&#39;s ODBC Drivers require.</para><para>To rectify the matter, please follow these steps:</para><para>1.
 Locate a copy of CTL3D32.DLL in your <computeroutput>C:\Windows\System32</computeroutput> directory.
 Ensure that this copy&#39;s creation date is in August 2001.</para><para>2.
 Locate the copy of CTL3D32.DLL in your FileMaker directory.</para><para>3.
 Rename or delete this version.
 This will force FileMaker to look in your <computeroutput>%SystemRoot%\SYSTEM32</computeroutput> directory for the .DLL.</para><para>4.
 You may need to restart your machine before these changes will be fully recognized by FileMaker.</para></section></docbook>