<docbook><section><title>DatabaseNotSelectedYet</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (D)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Database not selected yet (-349)</bridgehead>
<para>Informix error (-349) occurs when you  attempt to execute a SQL statement and there is no current database.
 This can occur when either of the following happens:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> No current database has been established yet.
 This happens when an implicit server connection is made.
 To make an implicit connection, you pass <computeroutput>@&lt;server_name&gt;</computeroutput> to the database field.
 To explicitly make a connection, change this to the actual <computeroutput>database_name</computeroutput>  you wish to connect to.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The current database was closed with a CLOSE DATABASE statement.
 You execute the DATABASE or CREATE DATABASE statement to establish a current database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Here&#39;s an example of what happens when you&#39;ve made an implicit connection:</para><programlisting>[INF73_MT]
Host = localhost:5032
UserName = username
ServerType = Informix 7.3
Driver = /dbs6/openlink/32bit/v51/mt/lib/oplodbc.so
Database = @myserver

        
bash$ ./odbctest &quot;DSN=INF73_MT;PWD=password&quot; 
OpenLink ODBC Demonstration program This program shows an interactive SQL processor 
Driver: 05.10.0903 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (oplodbc.so) 

SQL&gt;select count(*) from state 
SQLPrepare = [OpenLink][ODBC][Informix Server]Database not selected yet. (-349), SQLSTATE=S1000 

SQL&gt;database stores7 Statement executed. 
SQL&gt;select count(*) from state (count(*)) 
----------- 
54 result set 1 returned 1 rows.
    
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>odbc.ini File Request Broker Log udbc.ini File</para></section></docbook>