<docbook><section><title>DatabaseNotFoundOrNoSystemPermissio</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (D)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Database not found or no system permission (-329)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Database not found&quot; errors occur when the Informix DBMS cannot locate the database passed in the client DSN.
 To remedy this problem, insure that you pass only the name of the database in the Database field of your client DSN.
 DO NOT include the path to the database.
 Additionally, add or remove the .dbs extension.
 Some versions of Informix recognize the .dbs extension.
 Some versions do not.</para><para>If this problem persists, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 If your Informix database is hosted on Windows, open the Informix SetNet32 utility.
 If your Informix database is hosted on Unix, open your Informix user&#39;s .profile.</para><para>2.
 Find and record the DBPATH environment variable.
 For example:</para><programlisting>DBPATH=/usr/Informix/v73/bin
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Exit SetNet32 or the .profile.</para><para>4.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which appears in the /bin directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>5.
 Locate the [Environment INFORMIX] section which corresponds to your OpenLink Database Agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX7]
INFORMIXSERVER = online7
INFORMIXDIR = /usr/Informix/v73
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Insert the DBPATH variable.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX7]
INFORMIXSERVER = online7
INFORMIXDIR = /usr/Informix/v73
DBPATH =/usr/Informix/v73/bin
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>8.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>9.
 Test.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log DBMS Version</para></section></docbook>