<docbook><section><title>DSNLessConnectionStrings</title><title> UDA Connect String Attributes (all mechanisms and formats) </title> UDA Connect String Attributes (all mechanisms and formats) 
<para>You may need to build a complete Connect String to access a data source.</para><para>A connect string has the following syntax (in roughly BNF format) -- </para><programlisting>connection-string ::= empty-string[;] | attribute[;] | attribute; connection-string
empty-string ::=
attribute ::= attribute-keyword=attribute-value | DRIVER=[{]attribute-value[}]
attribute-keyword ::= DSN | UID | PWD | driver-defined-attribute-keyword
attribute-value ::= character-string
driver-defined-attribute-keyword ::= identifier
</programlisting><para>-- where -- </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>character-string</computeroutput> has zero or more characters; </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>identifier</computeroutput> has one or more characters; </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>attribute-keyword</computeroutput> is not case-sensitive; </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>attribute-value</computeroutput> may be case-sensitive; and </listitem>
<listitem> the value of the <computeroutput>DSN</computeroutput> keyword does not consist solely of blanks.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The following list describes valid attributes and their possible values common to all our data access drivers and providers (Single-Tier and Multi-Tier; ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE DB) --</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>DSN</computeroutput></emphasis> — Datasource name.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>UID</computeroutput></emphasis> — Username.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>PWD</computeroutput></emphasis> — Password.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>DRIVER</computeroutput></emphasis> — Identifies the ODBC Driver to be used.
 This should generally be either -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> the name displayed in the ODBC Administrator, returned by the <computeroutput>SQLDrivers()</computeroutput> function, or found in the odbcinst.ini file, wrapped in braces (&quot;<computeroutput>{ </computeroutput>}&quot;); or </listitem>
<listitem> the full path to the driver library, without wrapper.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>ReadOnly</computeroutput></emphasis> — Make the session read-only.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.
 <computeroutput>No</computeroutput> may be necessary to run stored procedures in some environments.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>FetchBufferSize</computeroutput></emphasis> or <emphasis><computeroutput>FBS</computeroutput></emphasis> — Integer value to determine the number of rows to buffer in each fetch.
 Values range from 1 to 999.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>NoLoginBox</computeroutput></emphasis> or <emphasis><computeroutput>NLB</computeroutput></emphasis> — Suppress the authentication dialog box that will appear if either username or password have been omitted.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>MaxRows</computeroutput></emphasis> —  Integer value to limit the number of returned rows.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>SVAST</computeroutput></emphasis> — Present system views as if they were system tables.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Select your driver type to see additional parameters and sample connection strings that may apply to your deployment:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="MTDSNLessStrings">Multi-Tier</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="STDSNLessStrings">Single-Tier</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>