<docbook><section><title>ErrorWhileLoadingLibesql92so</title><para> </para><title>Error Message: Error while loading shared libraries: libesql92.so or esql92.dll not found </title>Error Message: <computeroutput>Error while loading shared libraries: libesql92.so</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>esql92.dll not found</computeroutput> 
<para>This error may be reported by any SQL-92 driver for Progress/OpenEdge v9 or later.
 It indicates an issue with the Progress/OpenEdge SQL-92 Client Access and/or the local environment.
 It does not indicate a problem with any OpenLink Software component or installation.</para><para>The following steps should resolve the issue.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Ensure that the full Progress/OpenEdge DBMS, or the Progress/OpenEdge SQL-92 Client Access, have been installed on the same host as the active Multi-Tier Database Agent or Single-Tier ODBC Driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that the following environment variables are set: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>DLC</computeroutput> - (All OS) Should hold the full path to the root of the Progress installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>PROCFG</computeroutput> - (All OS) Should hold the full path to the <computeroutput>{progress.cfg</computeroutput>} file.
</listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput>, and/or <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput> - (Unix-like OS) Should include the <computeroutput>$DLC/lib</computeroutput> sub-directory.
</listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> - (All OS) Should include the <computeroutput>$DLC/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Re-install the Multi-Tier Database Agent or the Single-Tier ODBC Driver as the user which owns the Progress component installation, if possible.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using Multi-Tier -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Ensure the above variables are set in the relevant section of the Broker Rulebook (default, <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>), e.g., <computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESS9]</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart the Request Broker after the above conditions are met.
<programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
$ bash
% . ./openlink.sh
% cd bin
% ./rqbshut -fy
% ./oplrqb
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the Database Agent returns a version string.
 For example: <programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
$ bash
% . ./openlink.sh
% cd bin
% ./prs91_sv -?
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Retest your DSN.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Related Articles </bridgehead>
<para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Progress/<ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="PreinstallProgressLiteUnix">for Unix-like OS (AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, etc.)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="PreinstallProgressLiteWin32">for Windows</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Database Agent(s) for Progress/<ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink> 6.x to 9.x (SQL-89) <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="PreInstallServerUNIXPRO">for Unix-like OS (AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, etc.)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="PreInstallServerWin32PRO">for Windows</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>  Database Agent(s) for Progress/<ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink> 9.x, 10.x, and later (SQL-92) <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="PreInstallServerUNIXPRS">for Unix-like OS (AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, etc.)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="PreInstallServerWin32PRS">for Windows</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>