<docbook><section><title>ErrorMessagesT</title><para> </para><title>UDA Error Messages (T)</title>UDA Error Messages (T)
<para><ulink url="ErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="TableXDoesNotExistOrCannotBeAccessed">Table &lt;x&gt; does not exist or cannot be accessed (962)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableDoesNotExistOrIsNotOwnedByYou">Table does not exist or is not owned by you</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableMSysConfDoesNotExistOrCannotBeAccessed">Table MSysConf does not exist or cannot be accessed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableOrViewDoesNotExist">Table or view does not exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableOrViewNameXIsInDatabasesYAndZ">Table or view name &lt;x&gt; is in databases &lt;y&gt; and &lt;z&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableSysdbauth">Table sysdbauth; does not exist or cannot be accessed. (962)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TableViewSynonymNotFound7519">Table/View/Synonym not found (7519)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="CheckConnectionTelescopeError">The &#39;Check Connection&#39; operation could not be completed because an error occurred when trying to connect to an Oracle database.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="OBDCConfigMgrError">The application &quot;ODBC Setup PPC&quot; could not be opened because &quot;ODBC ConfigMgr&quot;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ErrorWhileLoadingLibesql92so">The application has failed to start because esql92.dll was not found.  Re-installing the application may fix this problem.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheColumnRec_serial">The column (rec_serial) must be in the GROUP BY list. (-294)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheConnectionToTheServerHasBeenAborted">The connection to the server has been aborted</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheCursorOrStatementIsNotAvailable">The cursor or statement is not available (#404)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheDatabaseAgentIsNotConfigured">The database agent is not configured</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheDatabaseAgentIsNotConfiguredForJet">The database agent is not configured for jet</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheDecimalFieldPrecisionIsTooSmallToAcceptTheNumericYouAttemptedToAdd">The decimal field precision is too small to accept the numeric you attempted to add</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="InstallerFoundNoTazPackages">The installer could not find any packages (.taz) to install.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="INFORMIXSERVERError">The INFORMIXSERVER value is not listed in the sqlhosts file or the Registry. (-25596)&quot;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheMicrosoftJetDatabaseEngineCannotOpenTheFile">The Microsoft Jet database engine cannot open the file</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheOpenDatabaseTableIsFullIncreaseTheHParameter">The open database table is full, increase the -h parameter. (1415)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheOpenLinkRequestBrokerServiceTerminatedUnexpectedly">The OpenLink Request Broker service terminated unexpectedly</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="SetConnectionTimeOutMins">The procedure entry point replace SetConnectionTimeOutMins@CSaRepositoryMgr&quot;  could not be located in the dynamic link library SARP.dll</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheProcedureEntryPointSignalError">The procedure entry point SignalError could not be located in the dynamic link library jvm.dll</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ErrorWhileLoadingLibesql92so">The program can&#39;t start because esql92.dll is missing from your computer.  Try reinstalling the program to fix this problem.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheServerOrTheSystemHasNoMoreResources">The server or the system has no more resources. Please contact Progress Technical Support. (748)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheServerOrTheSystemHasNoMoreResources">The server or the system has no more resources. Try a larger -n.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSharedLibraryLoaderCannotBeActivatedForThisProcess">The shared library loader cannot be activated for this process</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSharedMemoryIsVersionX">The Shared Memory is Version &lt;x&gt;; Expected &lt;y&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSocketNameIsNotAvailableOnThisSystem">The socket name is not available on this system</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSpecifiedServiceDoesNotExistAsAnInstalledService">The specified service does not exist as an installed service</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSpecifiedServiceHasBeenMarkedForDeletion">The specified service has been marked for deletion</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TheSpecifiedTableMsysconfIsNotInTheDatabase">The specified table (msysconf) is not in the database (-206)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThereIsNoMoreAvailableMemory">There is no more available memory. (-36100)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThereIsNoServerForDatabaseX">There is no server for database &lt;x&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThereWereErrorsInstallingTheSoftware">There were errors installing the software</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="JvmDllNotFound">This application has failed to start because jvm.dll was not found. Re-installing the application may fix this problem.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="CTL3D32DLLWhichIsNotTheCorrectVersion">This application uses CTL3D32.DLL which is not the correct version</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="CTL3D32DLLWhichHasNotBeenCorrectlyInstalled">This application uses CTL3D32.DLL, which has not been correctly installed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThisClientIsNotLicensedForRemoteConnections">This Client is Not Licensed for Remote Connections</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThisEvaluationCopyHasExpired">This evaluation copy has expired</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThisRecordHasBeenChangedByAnotherUserSinceYouStartedEditingIt">This record has been changed by another user since you started editing it</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ThisRoutineCannotBeCalledBecauseAnotherCommandStructureHasResultsPending">This routine cannot be called because another command structure has results pending</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TNSAlreadyInUse">TNS: Already in use</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TNSInternalLimitRestrictedOrExceeded">TNS: Internal limit restricted or exceeded</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TNSLostContact">TNS: Lost Contact</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TNSProtocolAdapterError">TNS: protocol adapter error</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="TooFewParameters">Too few parameters</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>