<docbook><section><title>GatheringEvidenceAgentLog</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Gathering Additional Evidence</bridgehead>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Database Agent Logs</bridgehead>
<para> OpenLink has special request debug agents.
 These agents allow you to perform advanced debugging at the database agent level.
 If you would like to debug an agent.
 Contact OpenLink Product Support.
 Support will forward an agent to you.</para><para>Once you have received your agent, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open your oplrqb.ini file.
 You will find this file in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [Domain Aliases] section of the file.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Domain Aliases]
DB2            = db2
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Locate the value which you pass in your client DSN&#39;s Domain or ServerType field.
 Find the alias associated with this value.
 For example:</para><programlisting>DB2 = db2 
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Locate the [Mapping Rules] section of the file.</para><para>5.
 Locate your alias amongst the rules.
 For example:</para><programlisting>db2:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_db2 
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Locate the [generic_xxxxxx] section which is passed by the rule.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_db2] 
Program = db2_mv  !! Make sure your agent is passed by this line !!
Environment = DB2 
ReUse = always ;
;CommandLine = ;
Database = ;
UserID = ;
Password = 
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Remove the semicolon (;) which appears in front of the CommandLine parameter.
 For example:</para><programlisting>CommandLine=;
</programlisting><para> 8.
 Pass the following options:</para><programlisting>CommandLine = +loglevel 7 +logfile db2.log
</programlisting><para> 9.
 Save your changes and exit the oplrqb.ini file.</para><para>10.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker to register the changes.</para><para>11.
 Recreate your problem.</para><para>11.
 Find the file which you specified in your oplrqb.ini file.</para><para>12.
 Forward the file to OpenLink Product Support </para></section></docbook>