<docbook><section><title>GlossaryEntryMappingRules</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Glossary of Technical Terms</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="GlossaryEntriesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Mapping Rules</bridgehead>
<para>The Mapping Rules are the cornerstone of OpenLink security.
 These rules are set in the [Mapping Rules] section of the OpenLink Session Rules Book.
 You will also find the Rules in the Administrative Assistant&#39;s Session Rules Editor.</para><para>Each Mapping Rule is composed of 7 parameters.
 They represent domain, database, user, opsys, machine, application, and access mode aliases, respectively.
 To create a rule, you simply input the appropriate values or regular expressions into the fields which you want to filter.
 The following rule allows anyone to connect to the backend database:</para><programlisting>*;*;*;*;*;*;* = accept generic_ora8   
}}

The following rule prohibits user scott from connecting to the backend database:   

{{{
*;*;scott;*;*;*;* = reject generic_ora8   
</programlisting><para> The following rule combination allows scott to connect to the database, if and only if he uses Microsoft Access in READ-ONLY mode:</para><programlisting>*;*;scott;*;*;msaccess;ro = accept generic_ora8 *;*;scott;*;*;*;* = reject generic_ora8   
</programlisting><para> As you can see, Mapping Rules provide you with a flexible and convenient way to build your security logic.
 For additional informational on the creation of Mapping Rules, consult your documentation.
</para></section></docbook>