<docbook><section><title>GlossaryEntryLDLIBRARYPATH</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Glossary of Technical Terms</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="GlossaryEntriesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">LD_LIBRARY_PATH</bridgehead>
<para>LD_LIBRARY_PATH is a standard, library environmental variable.
 If you install OpenLink&#39;s Data Access Drivers or Virtuoso on Unix, you want to run openlink.sh (Bourne/Bash shell) or openlink.csh (C shell).
 These scripts reside in your product&#39;s root directory, and they set all necessary PATH and ODBC-related variables.</para><para>If you receive error messages--which state that libraries are missing--search your system for those libraries.
 If they are present, pass their paths to LD_LIBRARY_PATH.
 You may code the location in your shell script.
 Just be sure to shutdown the Broker before you re-execute that script.
 You may also set and export these variables from the commandline or a user&#39;s .profile.</para><para>Finally, certain [Environment] sections of your OpenLink Session Rules Book may contain LD_LIBRARY_PATH.
 In this instance, you must pass your database&#39;s /lib sub-directory to that variable.</para><para>See Also: LIBPATH(AIX Users), SHLIB_PATH(HP Users) </para></section></docbook>