<docbook><section><title>HowCanIDetectMyOracleDBMSVersion</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Detecting the Oracle DBMS version</bridgehead>
<para>You may use the following steps to detect your oracle version:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine which hosts your Oracle database.
2.
 su to your Oracle user.
3.
 execute your Oracle user&#39;s .profile.
4.
 cd to ORACLE_ HOME/bin.
5.
 Execute the following command: /sqplus /nolog 6.
 Type: connect as sysdba 7.
 Provide your Oracle DBA username and password.
8.
 Execute the startup command if the instance is not running.
9.
 Execute the following command: select * from V$VERSION 10.
 Obtain the version output..</para><para>      For example:</para><para> </para><programlisting>      $ ./sqlplus /nolog

      SQL*Plus: Release 10.1.0.2.0 - Production on Thu Mar 15 12:56:19 2007

      Copyright (c) 1982, 2004, Oracle.  All rights reserved.

      SQL&gt; connect as sysdba
      Enter user-name: scott
      Enter password:
      Connected to an idle instance.

      SQL&gt; startup
      ORACLE instance started.

      Total System Global Area  289406976 bytes
      Fixed Size                  1328912 bytes
      Variable Size             262387952 bytes
      Database Buffers           25165824 bytes
      Redo Buffers                 524288 bytes
      Database mounted.
      Database opened.
      SQL&gt; select * from V$VERSION
       2  ;

      BANNER
      ----------------------------------------------------------------
      Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.1.0.2.0 - 64bi
      PL/SQL Release 10.1.0.2.0 - Production
      CORE    10.1.0.2.0      Production
      TNS for IBM/AIX RISC System/6000: Version 10.1.0.2.0 - Productio
      NLSRTL Version 10.1.0.2.0 - Production


</programlisting></section></docbook>