<docbook><section><title>HowDoIConfigureTheOracleNativeClient</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure the Oracle native client</bridgehead>
<para>No configuration is needed, if you use Oracle&#39;s InstantClient product.</para><para>Use the following steps to configure the Oracle native client on Windows:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains your Oracle client software.
2.
 Expand the Start menu.
3.
 Expand the Programs menu.
4.
 Expand the Oracle folder.
5.
 Expand the Configuration and Migration Tools folder.
6.
 Click the Net Configuration Assistant.
7.
 Select Local Net Service Name.
8.
 Click Next.
9.
 Select Add.
10.
 Click Next.
11.
 Choose your Oracle version.
12.
 Provide your Oracle SID.
13.
 Click Next.
14.
 Select the TCP protocol.
15.
 Click Next.
16.
 Provide the hostname of the machine that hosts Oracle.
17.
 Insure that the correct TCP port is indicated.
18.
 Click Next.
19.
 Test your Net Service Name.
20.
 Click Next.
21.
 Provide a name for your Service Name.
22.
 Click Next.
23.
 Click No.
24.
 Click Next twice.
25.
 Click Finish.</para><para>Use the following steps to configure the Oracle native client on Unix:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains your Oracle database server.
2.
 cd into the $ORACLE_ HOME/network/admin directory.
3.
 vi tnsnames.ora.
4.
 Locate the SID entry.
 For example:</para><programlisting>      ORA10G64 =
       (DESCRIPTION =
         (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(HOST = saturn.openlinksw.com)(PORT = 1521))
         (CONNECT_DATA =
           (SERVER = DEDICATED)
           (SERVICE_NAME = ora10g64)
         )
       )

</programlisting><para> 5.
 Login to the machine that contains the Oracle native client.
6.
 su to the oracle user.
7.
 Execute the oracle user&#39;s .profile.
8.
 cd to $ORACLE_ HOME/network/admin.
9.
 vi tnsnames.ora.
10.
 Create the same entry.
</para></section></docbook>