<docbook><section><title>InternalRPCCallFailed</title><para> </para><title>Error Message: Internal rpc call failed (Interrupted system call): RPC: Timed out</title>Error Message: <computeroutput>Internal rpc call failed (Interrupted system call): RPC: Timed out</computeroutput>
<para>There are several variants of the &quot;Internal RPC call failed&quot; error.</para><para>One variant occurs when you do not include your database&#39;s <computeroutput>/lib</computeroutput> sub-directory in the shared library environment variable.
 This &quot;Internal&quot; error generally contains the text, &quot;Interrupted system call.&quot; If you receive &quot;Interrupted system call&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open your <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file.
 You will find this file in the <computeroutput>/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory of the Broker installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Environment]</computeroutput> section, which corresponds to the active database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment ORACLE80]
ORACLE_HOME = /dbs/oracle80
ORACLE_SID = ORCL
;ORACLE_SERVER = T
;TWO_TASK = P:
;ODBC_CATALOGS = Y;
;MULTIPLEX_LDA = 5;
;OPL_USR_TBLS_FIRST = Y;
SHOW_REMARKS = N;
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW;
;OCI_PREFETCH_ROWS = 100;
;OCI_PREFETCH_MEMORY = 65535;
;LD_LIBRARY_PATH = /dbs/oracle80/lib;$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
;SHLIB_PATH = /dbs/oracle80/lib;$SHLIB_PATH
;LIBPATH = /dbs/oracle80/lib;$LIBPATH
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Add the full path to your database&#39;s <computeroutput>/lib</computeroutput> sub-directory to the <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput> (General), <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput> (AIX), and/or <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput> (HP/UX).
 For example: <programlisting>SHLIB_PATH=/usr/openlink/lib:/oracle/product/8.1.7/lib;$SHLIB_PATH
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>If your error does not contain &quot;Interrupted System Call,&quot; contact OpenLink Product Support</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Session Rules Book </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log </listitem>
<listitem> ODBC Client Trace </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Version String </listitem>
<listitem> Database Agent Version String </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>