<docbook><section><title>Libcashr0AFileOrDirectoryInThePathNameDoesNotExist</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (C)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Cannot load module libc.a(shr.0) ...
 A file or directory in the path name does not exist</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Libc.a&quot; errors occur when environment variables are not set.
 These errors also occur when OpenLink software is installed on an incompatible operating system.
 If you receive &quot;libc.a&quot; errors, run the following command:</para><programlisting>find / -name libc.a -print
</programlisting><para> If the file exists, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 cd to the root directory of your machine&#39;s OpenLink installation.</para><para>2.
 vi the openlink.sh (Korn, Bourne, Bash) or openlink.csh (C shell) file.</para><para>3.
 Pass the path to libc.a to PATH.</para><para>4.
 Pass the path to libc.a to LD_LIBRARY_PATH, SHLIB_PATH, and LIBPATH.</para><para>5.
 Save your changes and exit openlink.sh or openlink.csh.</para><para>6.
 Run one of the following commands:
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>. ./openlink.sh                      </entry><entry>Korn, Bourne, or Bash shells</entry></row>
<row><entry>source ./openlink.csh          </entry><entry>C shells</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>7.
 Test.</para><para>If the file does not exist, contact OpenLink Product Support.
 Your software may not be compatible with your machine.
 If the file exists -- and the previous instructions do not remedy the problem -- contact OpenLink Product Support.
 Your software may still be incompatible with your machine.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Name of .taz files Output of set uname -a</para></section></docbook>