<docbook><section><title>ManuallyConfigureProgressLiteConnectivity</title><para>   1.
 Edit the file bin/openlink.ini, and make sure the environment section for the driver contains the right entries.
 In case of the SQLServer Lite Driver this section looks like this:</para><programlisting>                [Environment SQLServer 2000]
                FREETDSCONF        = /home/openlink/bin/freetds.conf
                DSQUERY            = SQLSERVER   ; Load this section from freetds.conf
                TDSHOST            = host.domain ; Point this to your SQLServer machine
                TDSPORT            = 1433
                TDSVER             = 7.0
                SQLSERVER_CATALOG  = Y
                CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW         ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
</programlisting><para>       These environment varable values are database specific and are described in detail later in this section.
 In the case of SQLServer Driver, you only need to set the TDSHOST variable correctly.
 The FREETDSCONF variable is automatically set by the installer.
 Under normal conditions you do not have to modify the freetds.conf file nor the DSQUERY variable.</para><para>2.
 Edit the file bin/odbc.ini and add the correct settings to the sample DSN that is created:</para><programlisting>                [sql_lite]
                Driver          = /home/openlink/lib/sql_st_lt.so
                Description     = Sample SQLServer 2000 Lite Connection
                ServerType      = SQLServer 2000
                Username        =
                Password        =
                Database        =
                ReadOnly        = no
                FetchBufferSize = 60
              
</programlisting><para>       In the case of SQLServer Driver, you only need to modify Username, Password and Database.
 All modifications except the Driver keyword will be saved when reinstalling this or any other Lite Driver.</para><para>3.
 For most Lite drivers the LD_LIBRARY_PATH (or SHLIB_PATH or LIBPATH) environment variables must be set before you can load the driver.
 Therefore you will not find any mention of them in the openlink.ini file, as these settings are set by the driver after it is properly loaded.</para><para>      If the installer finds the right environment variables e.g.
 INFORMIXDIR, it will note the appropriate LD_LIBRARY_PATH settings, and add them automatically to the openlink.sh script.
 This file must therefore be run before you can do anything with the Lite Drivers, e.g.:</para><programlisting>                . ./openlink.sh
</programlisting><para>       If you this is not executed, then the system loader library will give an error message stating it cannot find some dependent shared libraries to load.
</para></section></docbook>