<docbook><section><title>MTAdvancedClientConfig</title><title> Advanced Multi-Tier Client Configuration </title> Advanced Multi-Tier Client Configuration 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Advanced Settings </bridgehead>
<para>The default values for most of these settings are recommended and sufficient for most situations.</para><para>Adjustments <emphasis>may</emphasis> negatively impact performance or lead to other undesirable results.
 <emphasis><emphasis>Please use caution!</emphasis></emphasis>
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> <emphasis><computeroutput>Communications</computeroutput></emphasis> </entry><entry /><entry /><entry> <emphasis><emphasis>Must be correctly synchronized with server-side Broker Rulebook settings.  For more details, see <ulink url="ConfiguringMTCommunicationsAttributes">Configuring Multi-Tier Communications Attributes</ulink>.</emphasis></emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry> </entry><entry> <emphasis><computeroutput>BrokerTimeout</computeroutput></emphasis></entry><entry>  <emphasis>30</emphasis>  </entry><entry> The amount of time the client will wait for a connection to an agent. The default value is 30. Value is measured in seconds.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> </entry><entry> <emphasis><computeroutput>ReceiveTimeout</computeroutput></emphasis> </entry><entry>  <emphasis>120</emphasis>  </entry><entry> The amount of time the client will wait for a query to return with data. The default value is 120. Value is measured in seconds.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> </entry><entry> <emphasis><computeroutput>ShowErrors</computeroutput></emphasis> </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Yes</emphasis>  </entry><entry> With this set to yes any OpenLink messages will be displayed in a dialog box. If this is set to no, OpenLink messages will not be displayed.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>n/a </entry><entry /><entry /></row>
<row><entry> </entry><entry> <emphasis><ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink></emphasis>   or   <emphasis>Domain</emphasis>   or   <emphasis>Provider Type</emphasis>   </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Oracle 10.x</emphasis>  or  <emphasis>Progress 100SQL</emphasis>  or  <emphasis>Odbc</emphasis>  etc.  </entry><entry> Each key name in this section represents a different provider type or &quot;Domain&quot;. To add a provider type, simply add a new line using the same syntax as the default types.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> How to Change these Advanced Settings</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> ...on Mac OS X </bridgehead>
<para>Global configuration information is contained in <computeroutput>/Users/*/Library/Preferences/com.openlinksw.uda.plist</computeroutput>.</para><para>For best results, use the <emphasis>System Preferences</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>OpenLink Settings</emphasis> preference pane to change these settings.</para><para>If necessary, any plist editor (or even a plain-text editor) can be used to edit this settings file.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> ...on Windows </bridgehead>
<para>Global configuration information is contained in the <computeroutput>OPENLINK.INI</computeroutput> sub-section of the registry.
 Windows platforms use the registry to store all configuration information.</para><para>To edit or view to registry, run the <computeroutput>regedit</computeroutput> program.
 To view the OpenLink settings, drill down to the following section:</para><para> <emphasis><computeroutput>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\OPENLINK.INI</computeroutput></emphasis></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> ...on Unix-like OS </bridgehead>
<computeroutput>[Communications]</computeroutput> settings are stored in the active <computeroutput>$ODBCINI</computeroutput> file.
 Most other settings may be found in <computeroutput>$OPENLINKINI</computeroutput>.</section></docbook>