<docbook><section><title>NoODBCINSTINI</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (N)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">No OpenLink ODBCINST.INI file found</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;No OpenLink ODBCINST.INI file found&quot; error message suggests that the ODBCINSTINI environment variable has not been set.
 If you receive this error, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client components installation.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Run the command which corresponds to your Unix shell.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ . ./openlink.sh // Bourne, Korn, and Bash Shells
$ source openlink.csh //C Shells
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Run set.
 Insure that ODBCINI, ODBCINSTINI, and UDBCINI are set.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ set
SHLIB_PATH=:/home/openlink/32bit/lib
TERM=vt100
TMOUT=0
TZ=EST5EDT
UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/bin/udbc.ini
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Test.</para><para>If your variables are not set, use a text editor to open the openlink.sh or openlink.csh script.
 Take note of the environment variables.
 Then, try to set them on the command line.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
$ vi openlink.sh

UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/udbc.ini
ODBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbc.ini
ODBCINSTINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbcinst.ini
:q!

$ export UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/udbc.ini
$ export ODBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbc.ini
$ export ODBCINSTINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbcinst.ini
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Name of .taz files Output of set uname -a</para></section></docbook>