<docbook><section><title>OPLParameter</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">OPLParameter
</bridgehead>
<para>Represents a parameter to an OPLCommand and optionally, its mapping to a <ulink url="DataSet">DataSet</ulink> column.</para><programlisting>public class OPLParameter : MarshalByRefObject, IDbDataParameter, IDataParameter, ICloneable
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Constructors</bridgehead>
<programlisting>public OPLParameter();
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class.</para><programlisting>public OPLParameter(string parameterName, object value);
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class with the parameter name and a value of the new OPLParameter object.</para><programlisting>public OPLParameter(string parameterName, OPLDbType type);
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class with the parameter name and the data type.</para><programlisting>public OPLParameter(string parameterName, OPLDbType type, int size);
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class with the parameter name, the <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink> and the size.</para><programlisting>public OPLParameter(string parameterName, OPLDbType type, int size, string sourceColumn);
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class with the parameter name, the <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink>, the size, and the source column name.</para><programlisting>public OPLParameter(string parameterName, OPLDbType type, int size, ParameterDirection direction, Boolean isNullable, Byte precision, Byte scale, string sourceColumn, DataRowVersion sourceVersion, object value);
</programlisting><para> Initializes a new instance of the OPLParameter class with the parameter name, the type of the parameter, the size of the parameter, a <ulink url="ParameterDirection">ParameterDirection</ulink>, whether the parameter is nullable, the precision of the parameter, the scale of the parameter, the source column, a <ulink url="DataRowVersion">DataRowVersion</ulink> to use, and the value of the parameter.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Methods</bridgehead>
<computeroutput>{public override string ToString ();</computeroutput>}<para>Gets a string containing the <ulink url="ParameterName">ParameterName</ulink>.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Properties</bridgehead>
<programlisting>public OPLDbType OPLDbType {get; set;}
</programlisting><para> Gets or sets the <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink> of the parameter.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Remarks</bridgehead>
<para>The <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink> and <ulink url="DbType">DbType</ulink> are linked.
 Therefore, setting the <ulink url="DbType">DbType</ulink> changes the OPLType to a supporting <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink>.
 For a list of the supported data types, see the appropriate <ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink> member.
</para></section></docbook>