<docbook><section><title>OplrqbHasNoRegistrationInformation</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (O)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">oplrqb has no registration information</bridgehead>
<para>  &quot;oplrqb has no registration information&quot; is a typical licensing error.
 If you experience this error, take the action that corresponds to your OpenLink version:</para><para><emphasis>OpenLink 1.x and 3.x</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Insure that you have a valid temporary or commercial license.</para><para>2.
 Insure that the license is named register.ini.</para><para>3.
 Place the license in the bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>4.
 Insure that the relevant PATH variable contains the bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation.</para><para>5.
 Remove any expired or extraneous license files from the system.</para><para>6.
 Shutdown your Request Broker.</para><para>7.
 Run the following command from the bin sub-directory:</para><programlisting>register
</programlisting><para> 8.
 Restart your Request Broker.</para><para>9.
 Test.</para><para> <emphasis>OpenLink 4.x and above</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Insure that you have a valid temporary or commercial license.</para><para>2.
 Insure that the license is named oplrqb.lic.</para><para>3.
 Place the license in the bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>4.
 Insure that the relevant PATH variable contains the bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation.</para><para>5.
 Remove any expired or extraneous license files from the system.</para><para>6.
 Restart your Request Broker.</para><para>7.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>License File </para></section></docbook>