<docbook><section><title>OracleLiteInstallOnMacProducesNotEnoughPrivilegesError</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Installation Specific Problems</bridgehead>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Oracle Lite Install On Mac Produces Not Enough Privileges Error</bridgehead>
<para>Receiving a <computeroutput><emphasis>not enough privileges</emphasis></computeroutput> error when trying to configure DSNs for the OpenLink Oracle Lite Driver typically indicates that the <computeroutput>$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file either doesn&#39;t exist, isn&#39;t located where the OpenLink expects to find it, or needs to have its privileges set differently.</para>
<para>The following process assumes that this file doesn&#39;t exist yet.
 If you already have a valid <computeroutput>tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file for your environment, you may place it at the location specified in Step #3, or create a symbolic or hard link to the same location.
 Please note that a Finder Alias will not serve.</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"> 	<listitem><para>Create the <computeroutput>$ORACLE_HOME</computeroutput> directory, and the required sub-directories.
 Our recommendation is to execute the following command in a Terminal session, which will make all missing directories at once --</para>
<blockquote><programlisting><computeroutput>mkdir -p /Library/Preferences/Oracle/network/admin</computeroutput></programlisting></blockquote></listitem> 	<listitem><para>Within the <computeroutput>$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin</computeroutput> directory, create a <computeroutput>tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file.
 This may be an empty file, because the ODBC Setup will create all necessary content, so simply executing the command below is sufficient --</para>
<blockquote><programlisting><computeroutput>touch /Library/Preferences/Oracle/network/admin/tnsnames.ora</computeroutput></programlisting></blockquote>
</listitem><para> 	</para><listitem><para>Make the entire ORACLE_HOME directory readable and writeable     by everyone, with the following command --</para><blockquote><programlisting><computeroutput>sudo chmod -R 777 /Library/Preferences/Oracle</computeroutput></programlisting></blockquote></listitem> 	<listitem><para>Launch the <computeroutput>iODBC Administrator</computeroutput> (<computeroutput>/Applications/iODBC/</computeroutput>) or the <computeroutput>OpenLink ODBC Administrator</computeroutput> (<computeroutput>/Applications/Utilities/</computeroutput>) to configure your ODBC data source(s).</para></listitem> 	<listitem><para>In the field labelled <computeroutput>Oracle directory</computeroutput>, enter the full path of the <computeroutput>$ORACLE_HOME</computeroutput> directory created or selected in Step #1, e.g.,</para>
<blockquote><programlisting><computeroutput>/Library/Preferences/Oracle</computeroutput></programlisting></blockquote></listitem> 	<listitem><para>If you just <computeroutput>touched</computeroutput> the <computeroutput>tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file, the <computeroutput>Net Service Name</computeroutput> menu will be empty.
 If you placed a valid <computeroutput>tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file at the appropriate location in Step #3, you may see a list of Net Service Names to choose from.
 Click on the <computeroutput><emphasis>Advanced</emphasis></computeroutput> button to bring up the <computeroutput><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Oracle Lite Setup Wizard</computeroutput> which will allow you to edit or create Net Service Names for use on this Mac.</para> <para>This wizard is essentially a GUI configuration utility for the <computeroutput>tnsnames.ora</computeroutput> file.
 The errors you received previously indicated that this wizard could not find, or could not edit, the file specified by any previously set <computeroutput>$ORACLE_HOME</computeroutput>.</para></listitem> 	<listitem><para>Fill in the four fields with appropriate values, as provided by your Oracle DBA, and click <computeroutput>Add</computeroutput> for each desired service name.</para></listitem> 	<listitem><para>Click on <computeroutput>OK</computeroutput> to return to ODBC data source configuration.
     The <computeroutput>Net Service Name</computeroutput> menu should now be populated.</para></listitem> </orderedlist> 
</section></docbook>