<docbook><section><title>P21AdvancedDataSourceNameCreationTopics</title><title>Advanced DSN Configuration for Epicor (formerly Activant) Prophet 21 users</title>Advanced DSN Configuration for Epicor (formerly Activant) Prophet 21 users
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> &quot;Domain&quot; values </bridgehead>
<para>Historically, P21 DSNs used the Release 3.x Multi-Tier Generic Client, and passed <emphasis>Progress 8</emphasis> in the <emphasis>Domain</emphasis> field.</para><para>Release 4.x and later Multi-Tier components use more specific Domain values, like <emphasis>Progress 83B.</emphasis> If the wrong Domain value is set, you may receive &quot;Broker is unable to resolve your request&quot; errors.
 This error is discussed <ulink url="BrokerIsUnableToResolveYourRequest">elsewhere in our knowledgebase</ulink>.</para><para>If you cannot determine the correct Domain value to use, open a Support Case through our <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online Support Center</ulink>, and we will assist you.
 <emphasis>There is no charge for using this system.</emphasis></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> &quot;Hostname&quot; values </bridgehead>
<para>The <emphasis>Hostname</emphasis> field passes the DNS-resolvable hostname or IP address of the P21 database host (e.g., <computeroutput>p21.example.com</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>192.168.123.231</computeroutput>).</para><para>If there is some doubt about the hostname or IP address to use in the DSN, you can usually access the AIX command-line and execute this simple command: </para><programlisting>hostname
</programlisting><para> This should generally return the information that you need.
 However, the <computeroutput>hostname</computeroutput> command may have been re-aliased in such a way that it returns inappropriate information.</para><para>If you can not determine the correct IP address or hostname, open a Support Case through our <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online Support Center</ulink>, and we will assist you.
 <emphasis>There is no charge for using this system.</emphasis></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Working with the entire P21 database schema </bridgehead>
<para> You should generally pass the full path to one Progress database in the Database field.
 Here are some examples relevant to P21 -- </para><programlisting>/usr/lpp/p21pro/db/gate.db 
/usr/lpp/p21pro/db/dyn.db 
/usr/lpp/p21pro/db/gl.db 
/usr/lpp/p21pro/db/stat.db 
</programlisting><para>Along with some special C-ISAM data files, these comprise the Progress Distributed Database which is P21&#39;s data store.</para><para>You may actually want to connect to, and execute JOIN queries over, all these databases simultaneously.
 In that event, you should leave the database field blank.
 Instead, you will use <ulink url="ConfigureProgressTableview">Progress &quot;Tableview&quot; features</ulink>.</para><para>Prophet 21 installations generally include a pre-generated Parameter File, <computeroutput>/usr/lpp/openlink/dat/0/tableview.pf</computeroutput>, and associated Data file, <computeroutput>/usr/lpp/openlink/dat/0/tableview.dat</computeroutput>, for this purpose.</para><para>The Parameter File is used by setting &quot;Database Server&quot;, &quot;Options&quot;, &quot;Default Gateway,&quot; or some similar variant field (exact names vary depending on the Multi-Tier version) to <emphasis><computeroutput>-pf /usr/lpp/openlink/dat/0/tableview.pf</computeroutput>.</emphasis> A related setting must also be made in the Broker Rulebook, <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>, on the P21 database host.</para><para>If you have trouble establishing simultaneous connections to the distributed database or in working with some P21 tables, open a Support Case through our <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">online Support Center</ulink>, and we will assist you.
 <emphasis>There is no charge for using this system.</emphasis></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Username and Password values </bridgehead>
<para>P21 databases may or may not be secured with a username and password.
 (Progress databases tend not to be secured, but P21 sometimes implements a proprietary authentication.)</para><para>If you are unsure whether you need a username and password — or you do not know what the required values are — you must contact Epicor P21 Support.
 <emphasis>We cannot help you with passwords or related user authentication information.</emphasis></para><para> </para></section></docbook>