<docbook><section><title>PivotTableOrStoredQueryTargetsOldDSN</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Application Specific Problems</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">PivotTable or Stored Query Targets Old DSN</bridgehead>
<para>Microsoft provides an Excel add-in to modify query connection strings and selection statements without using MSQuery.
 Download this utility here and follow these instructions:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem><para>Click <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com/support/modifyqrypvttbl.xla">HERE to download</ulink> the add-in</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Save the add-in to the &quot;Library&quot; folder within your MS Office application tree.
 The default location is —</para>
<para>   </para><blockquote>C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office\Library</blockquote></listitem><listitem><para>Open the spreadsheet you wish to modify.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>On the Tools menu, select &quot;Add-ins&quot;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>In the list, find &quot;Query Table/Pivot Table Editor&quot; and check the box next to it.</para>
<para>(If it was already checked, but you find yourself unable to find the menu item in the next step, you may need to &quot;re-install&quot; the add-in by clicking the Browse button, then navigating to the &quot;Library&quot; folder where you put the file &quot;ModifyQryPvtTbl.xla&quot;, and selecting it.
 Then hit &quot;OK&quot; in the Add-ins dialog.)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Select a cell ON the pivot table in your <ulink url="MasterMine">MasterMine</ulink> report.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Now, on the Tools menu, click &quot;Edit Query Table/Pivot Table&quot;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>In the dialog, change find the old path and modify it as desired.
 Then select Apply to make the change.</para></listitem></orderedlist>
<para>It is easy to make a mistake with this utility by entering invalid data.
 If the change does not work, DO NOT SAVE the Excel workbook and close it.
 You may then try again if necessary.</para>
<para>MS KB Article on changing query properties (including data source) in Access -- <ulink url="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/304356/">http://support.microsoft.com/kb/304356/</ulink></para><programlisting><computeroutput>   Field List Properties

   To view the field list properties, in Design view of any query,                   
   right-click in any cell in the query design grid, and then click 
   Properties on the shortcut menu.

</computeroutput></programlisting>
<para>   Property Name   Description </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5" />
<para>   </para><para>    Alias           You can use the Alias property to specify a custom                    name for a source table or query when you use the                    same table or query more than once in the same query.</para><para>   Source          You can use the Source property to specify the source                    connection string and source database for a query&#39;s                    source table or query.</para></section></docbook>