<docbook><section><title>PreinstallODBCLiteMono</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OpenLink .NET Data Provider for ODBC Pre-Installation Requirements</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Pre-Installation Requirements for Mono Clients</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target database must be ODBC and SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish an ODBC connection to this database using third-party or native ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Software Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need a functional Mono CLR runtime.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to ensure that you have the iODBC or other ODBC Driver Manager installed on non-Windows platforms.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess third-party or native drivers that connect to your target database.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as OpenLink&#39;s .NET Data Provider for ODBC.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Configuration Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You will need to ensure that your environment is configured to promote connectivity using your third-party or native ODBC driver.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
 Ideally, you will use your drivers to create a System Data Source Name for greater compatibility with OpenLink needs.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know the exact name of one or more third party or native Data Source Names that connect to your target data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><emphasis>Proceed to Installation Documentation:</emphasis>  <ulink url="InstallODBCLiteMono">OpenLink .NET Data Provider for ODBC Installation and Configuration</ulink></para></section></docbook>