<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerUNIXDB2</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Database Agent(s) for DB2, for Unix-like OS </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Database Agent(s) for DB2, for Unix-like OS 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target DB2 DBMS instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIIdentifyDB2DatabaseNames">Database Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIIdentifyTheDB2InstanceName">DB2 Instance Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Database Server Hostname or IP Address</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  You will need an installation of the DB2 native client on a supported operating system, if you cannot install the Multi-Tier server components on the same machine as DB2.
 At the time of writing, this product is called <emphasis><emphasis>DB2 Connect.</emphasis></emphasis> Product names may vary over time.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether the local DB2 components are 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Multi-Tier server components must match the bit format of the local DB2 components, not the OS.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Request Broker and database-specific Agents must be installed on the same machine as DB2 or a  DB2 native client.
 If you install on the same machine as the DB2 native client, you must have a <ulink url="ConfigureDB2DBAliasonUnix">DB2 database alias</ulink> configured.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are already in use on the Broker host.
 These ports are the defaults used by our Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 If other services are using these, you will need to assign different (unused) ports to the new services during installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> For best results, the Multi-Tier server components should be installed while logged in as the local DB2 or DB2 native client owner.
</listitem>
<listitem> All DB2-related environment variables should be set prior to installation.
 This is typically accomplished simply by logging in as the local DB2 or DB2 native client owner, but if logged in as a different user, you can often achieve the same by using that user&#39;s .profile or similar, with a command like one of these (depending on your active shell) -- <programlisting>source ./.profile
. ./.profile
</programlisting> </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="InstallServerUNIX">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink> </para></section></docbook>