<docbook><section><title>PreinstallDB2LiteWin32</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for DB2, for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for DB2, for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target DB2 DBMS instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIIdentifyDB2DatabaseNames">Database Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIIdentifyTheDB2InstanceName">DB2 Instance Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIIdentifyTheDB2ListeningPort">TCP Port Number</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Database Server Hostname or IP Address</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to know whether the client application is 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for DB2 must match the bit format of the client application.
</listitem>
<listitem> The DB2 native client or DB2 itself must be installed on the same host as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for DB2.
 At the time of writing, the native client is called <emphasis><emphasis>DB2 Connect.</emphasis></emphasis> Product names may vary over time.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The local DB2 components must match the bit format of the client application and the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for DB2.
</listitem>
<listitem> The DB2 native client ships with the DBMS install media.
 It may also be downloaded from the IBM Software Mall.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to configure a local <ulink url="ConfigureDB2DBAliasWin">DB2 Database Alias</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallDB2LiteWin32">Proceed to Installation Documentation</ulink>.
</para></section></docbook>