<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerUNIXJBridge</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a, the ODBC/JDBC/ADO.NET-to-JDBC Bridge), for Unix-like OS </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a, the ODBC/JDBC/ADO.NET-to-JDBC Bridge), for Unix-like OS 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have all information necessary to configure a JDBC connection to the data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native JDBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target data source.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> The JDBC driver jar file (or a symbolic link to it) must be included in the active <computeroutput>CLASSPATH</computeroutput>.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Supporting Java libraries (or links to them) may also need to be included in this variable value.
</listitem>
<listitem> Directories containing other supporting libraries may need to be included in one of the other shared library environment variables (e.g., <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with the Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using a 64-bit JDBC Driver, you must have a 64-bit JVM, and 64-bit Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources must be installed on the same machine as the JDBC drivers that connect to the target database.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are already in use on the Broker host.
 These ports are the defaults used by our Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 If other services are using these, you will need to assign different (unused) ports to the new services during installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> For best results, the Multi-Tier server components should be installed while logged in as the owner of the local third-party JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> All JDBC-related environment variables should be set prior to installation.
 This is typically accomplished simply by logging in as the owner of the local third-party JDBC driver, but if logged in as a different user, you can often achieve the same by using that user&#39;s .profile or similar, with a command like one of these (depending on your active shell) -- <programlisting>source ./.profile
. ./.profile
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You must know the driver class name of your JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the full details of the JDBC connection URL that connects to your target JDBC Data Source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="InstallServerUNIX">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink> </para></section></docbook>