<docbook><section><title>RulesBookSettingsGeneric</title><para> </para><title>Multi-Tier Rulebook Settings: [generic_agentname] </title>Multi-Tier Rulebook Settings: <computeroutput>[generic_agentname]</computeroutput> 
<para>Each Database Agent will have a section that is typically called &quot;<computeroutput>generic_</computeroutput>&quot; followed by a database label.
 For example: <computeroutput>[generic_virt]</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>[generic_odbc]</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>[generic_db2]</computeroutput>.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>Program         </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> name of the executable to run                         </entry></row>
<row><entry>Environment     </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> specify Environment section to use                    </entry></row>
<row><entry>CommandLine     </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> commandline options (optional)                         </entry></row>
<row><entry>ServerOptions   </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> force DBMS-specific client options (optional)          </entry></row>
<row><entry>Directory       </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> where to chdir before starting the Agent          </entry></row>
<row><entry>Database        </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> force name of the database (optional)               </entry></row>
<row><entry>ConnectOptions  </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> force DBMS-specific connect options (optional)     </entry></row>
<row><entry>UserID          </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> force userid (optional)                             </entry></row>
<row><entry>Password        </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> force password (optional)                         </entry></row>
<row><entry>ReadOnly        </entry><entry>  No     </entry><entry> force read-only mode (optional)                        </entry></row>
<row><entry>OpsysLogin      </entry><entry>  No     </entry><entry> when set to Yes, the Request Broker will do an operating system login before spawning. This implies <computeroutput>ReUse = ifsame user</computeroutput>. (optional)</entry></row>
<row><entry>NeedsCLI        </entry><entry>                      </entry><entry> (VMS only) Use CLI to spawn the agent                     </entry></row>
<row><entry>ReUse           </entry><entry>  never  </entry><entry> Defines how an agent will be re-used. See below for details of the <ulink url="ReUseParameter">ReUse Parameter</ulink>.       </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> CommandLine parameter </bridgehead>
<para>The CommandLine value can include any or all of the following options:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>+noautocommit</emphasis> -- This means that all connections routed (by the mapping rules) through this agent section will have autocommit behaviour turned off.
 This is useful if your client-side application relies on manual commits of its transactions; you can define a mapping rule to match only that application and add +noautocommit, while other applications use a different agent section.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>+maxrows</emphasis> -- This defines the maximum number of rows to fetch from any query.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>+initsql</emphasis> -- Specifies a file with a set of SQL statements to execute immediately when each connection is established.
 For example, this can be useful to set transaction isolation levels, if your application assumes them to be set a specific way.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>+jetfix</emphasis> -- This enables various workarounds for operation with the Microsoft Jet Engine, e.g., through MS Access or MS Query.
 Particularly, data type mappings may be changed for greater accuracy using these applications.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>+norowsetlimit</emphasis> -- This disables any rowset-size limit; it is useful in cursor operations on large tables.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ReUse parameter </bridgehead>
always is implied by all values other than never.

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>never               </entry><entry> never reuse this instance (default)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>always              </entry><entry> always try to reuse this instance  </entry></row>
<row><entry>upto &lt;n&gt;      </entry><entry> allow at most n connection to the same instance  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifreadonly          </entry><entry> allow only read-only requests  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame database     </entry><entry> group connection requests that alias to the same database  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame process      </entry><entry> group connections with the same calling process id (pid)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame options      </entry><entry> group connections specifying the same connect options  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame application  </entry><entry> group connections from same application alias  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame user         </entry><entry> group connections from the same username  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame machine      </entry><entry> group connections from the same client host  </entry></row>
<row><entry>ifsame opsys        </entry><entry> group connections from the same operating system  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>