<docbook><section><title>RunTableviewOnWindows</title><title> Setting Up Tableview Functionality for SQL-89 Connections on Windows </title> Setting Up Tableview Functionality for SQL-89 Connections on Windows 
<para>The following instructions will enable you to run <emphasis><computeroutput>setup.p</computeroutput></emphasis> on a Windows host.</para><para><emphasis><emphasis>Please note</emphasis> -- you must have a 4GL Development System license to run this script.
 Client Networking alone is not sufficient.
 This script does not need to be run on the client host which will use the resulting tableview files, however -- the script may be run on any host which has the licensed 4GL Development System, and the same versions of the Client Networking libraries as will be used on the ODBC client host(s).</emphasis></para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Confirm environment variable settings -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>DLC</computeroutput> variable must be set to the main Progress directory, e.g., <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\Progress</computeroutput>) </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> variable must include the expanded <computeroutput>$DLC\bin</computeroutput> directory, e.g., <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\Progress\bin</computeroutput> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Search your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> installation for a file called <computeroutput>setup.p</computeroutput>.
 Make note of the directory in which it is found.
 (By default, we will install this in one of the following -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Single-Tier <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\OpenLink\lite32\</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\lite32\</computeroutput> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Multi-Tier <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\OpenLink\Scripts\Progress\</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\Scripts\Progress\</computeroutput> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Start a CMD/DOS session (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Run...</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis><computeroutput>CMD</computeroutput></emphasis>), and navigate to the directory you found above; for instance -- <programlisting>cd C:\Program Files\OpenLink\lite32
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Execute the following command to start the script -- <programlisting>pro -p setup.p
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> The script will present a screen of instructions.
 Type any key to get the entry dialog.
</listitem>
<listitem> Enter your target database name, and the connection parameters if running in sockets mode.
 When entering paths, if there are any spaces, e.g., <computeroutput>C:\Program Files\</computeroutput>, you must enclose the entire path in quotation marks <programlisting>1  &lt;/full/path/to/database/file.db&gt;
   -S &lt;port number or service name&gt; -H &lt;host&gt; -N tcp -ld &lt;logical name&gt; -trig &lt;path to triggers file directory&gt;
</programlisting>For instance -- <programlisting>1  C:\Progress\DBS\demo.db
   -S prosports -H localhost -N tcp -ld psports -trig C:\Progress\DBS\triggers
</programlisting>-- or -- <programlisting>1  &quot;C:\Program Files\Progress\DBS\demo.db&quot;
   -S 6100 -H progress-host.example.com -N tcp -ld psports -trig &quot;C:\Program Files\Progress\DBS\triggers&quot;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Hit the <emphasis>enter</emphasis> key when complete.
 The script will pause briefly to test the connection.
</listitem>
<listitem> If you have another target database, enter that information.
 When you have no more targets, hit the <emphasis>F4</emphasis> key.
</listitem>
<listitem> You will now be prompted for the location to store the new files, and the name to use for those files.
 Note that setup.p cannot create new directories, so you must choose a location that already exists.
 For most predictable results, enter the same location as you started with (where setup.p is), and the default filename, `tableview` -- <programlisting>&quot;C:\Program Files\OpenLink\lite32&quot;
tableview
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Hit the <emphasis>enter</emphasis> key when ready.
 The script will save the files, and present a NOTICE about what it has done.
 <emphasis><emphasis>Please note</emphasis> -- the NOTICE was written for Multi-Tier users, and may not be exactly applicable to you, if using Single-Tier.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> You can now close the CMD/DOS window.
</listitem>
<listitem> Now, go to the Data Sources (ODBC) control panel, locate and select your DSN, and click CONFIGURE.
</listitem>
<listitem> On the second pane of the setup dialog, the <emphasis>Session options</emphasis> field should generally be left blank; the <emphasis>Database options</emphasis> should now contain only the <emphasis><computeroutput>-pf &lt;full path and file name to .pf file&gt;</computeroutput></emphasis>, and the <emphasis>Table view</emphasis> field should contain <emphasis><computeroutput>&lt;full path and file name to .dat file&gt;</computeroutput></emphasis>.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Session options</computeroutput></emphasis> — (blank) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database options</computeroutput></emphasis> — <computeroutput>-pf &quot;C:\Program Files\OpenLink\lite32\tableview.pf&quot;</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Table view</computeroutput></emphasis> — <computeroutput>&quot;C:\Program Files\OpenLink\lite32\tableview.dat&quot;</computeroutput> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>