<docbook><section><title>ServerAgentAdminTDS</title><title>TDS-based Sybase &amp; Microsoft SQL Server Agent Administration</title>TDS-based Sybase &amp; Microsoft SQL Server Agent Administration
<para>The TDS-based Agent has replaced the old-style DB-Lib- and CT-Lib-based Sybase and SQLServer Database Agents and Lite Drivers.</para><para>A number of environment variables may be used in configuring database clients.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Table 1.
 Default Rule Book settings</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Rule Book Section &amp; parameters</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Default Rule Book Settings</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Notes</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  [Environment SQLServer 2000]  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> The section name will vary with the agent version and database version.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  FREETDSCONF  </entry><entry>  /home/openlink/bin/freetds.conf  </entry><entry>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  DSQUERY  </entry><entry>  SQLSERVER  </entry><entry> Tells the driver what section of the freetds.conf file applies to these connections.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  TDSHOST  </entry><entry>  sqlsrv  </entry><entry> Tells the driver what host your SQL Server/Sybase instance is on.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  TDSPORT  </entry><entry>  1433  </entry><entry> Tells the driver what port your SQL Server/Sybase instance listens to for incoming connections. SQL Server uses port 1433 by default; Sybase uses 4100.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  TDSVER  </entry><entry>  7.0  </entry><entry> Tells the driver what version of TDS to use, based on the SQL Server version.  Refer to the table below.  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  SQLSERVER_CATALOG  </entry><entry>  Y  </entry><entry> </entry></row>
<row><entry>  CURSOR_SENSITIVITY  </entry><entry>  LOW  </entry><entry> You can set this to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>The TDSVER option above must be set correctly for connection to the desired database.
 Use the following table to find which.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Table 2.
 TDSVER settings</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  <para><emphasis>TDSVER or -V Value</emphasis>  </para></entry><entry>  <para><emphasis>Database Versions Supported</emphasis>  </para></entry><entry>  <para><emphasis>Actual TDS Protocol Version</emphasis>  </para></entry></row>
<row><entry>  4.2  </entry><entry> Microsoft SQL Server 4.x, 6.x </entry><entry>  4.2  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  4.6  </entry><entry> Sybase SQL Server 4.x </entry><entry>  4.2  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  5.0  </entry><entry> Sybase ASE (Adaptive Server Enterprise) 11.x, 12.x, 15.x  Sybase ASA (Adaptive Server Anywhere) 7.x, 8.x, 9.x  Sybase SQL Anywhere 6.x, 10.x, 11.x  Sybase SQL Server 10.x, 11.x </entry><entry>  5.0  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  7.0  </entry><entry> Microsoft SQL Server 7.x </entry><entry>  7.0  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  8.0  </entry><entry> Microsoft SQL Server 2000 (v.8.x) </entry><entry>  7.1  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  9.0  </entry><entry> Microsoft SQL Server 2005 (v.9.x) </entry><entry>  7.2  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  10.0  </entry><entry> Microsoft SQL Server 2008 (v.10.x) </entry><entry>  7.3  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>