<docbook><section><title>StartupOptions</title><para> </para><title> Multi-Tier Request Broker Startup Options</title> Multi-Tier Request Broker Startup Options
<para>The Request Broker can be started in a number of ways using various command line options.
 A single instance is described here.
 For multiple instances, see a subsequent section.</para><programlisting>Usage: 
  oplrqb [-flLdcv] [+foreground] [+loglevel num] [+logfile arg]
	[+debug][+configfile arg] [+version]
  +foreground   run Broker in the foreground mode
  +loglevel     log level where Broker session log details decrease in verbosity from 7 down to 1
  +logfile      full path and file name into which Broker session log output is to be written
  +debug        starts Broker in debug mode
  +configfile   use alternate configuration file
  +version      show version number
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Command Line Examples</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>oplrqb </computeroutput> Starts the Broker in background mode. </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>oplrqb -v</computeroutput> Starts the Broker in background mode and displays version information as part of startup process. </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>oplrqb -dv</computeroutput> Starts the Broker in foreground debug mode using default log level 7 (highest amount of session log information).
 This occupies your terminal session in the foreground, and echoes the output of all OpenLink Data Access Clients to the terminal window. </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>oplrqb -dvl 1</computeroutput> Starts the Broker in foreground debug mode using default log level 1 (lowest amount of session log information).
 This occupies your terminal session in the foreground, and echoes the output of all OpenLink Data Access Clients to the terminal window. </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>oplrqb -dvL /tmp/openlink.log</computeroutput> Starts the Broker in foreground debug mode using default log level 7 (highest amount of session log information).
 This occupies your terminal session in the foreground, and echoes the output of all OpenLink Data Access Clients to the file &quot;/tmp/openlink.log.&quot; </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>