<docbook><section><title>SupplemtarySQL</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Supplementary Pre-Install &amp; Configuration Resources By Database </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Microsoft SQL Server </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="DoOpenLinkDriversConnectToMSSQLServer">Do OpenLink drivers connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhichVersionsOfMSSQLServerAreSupportedByOpenLinkDrivers">Which versions of MS SQLServer are supported by OpenLink drivers?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIDetectMyMSSQLServerDBMSVersion">How can I detect my MS SQLServer DBMS version?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatIsTheMSSQLServerNativeClient">What is the MS SQLServer native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhenDoINeedTheMSSQLServerNativeClient">When do I need the MS SQLServer native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WherecanIgettheMSSQLServernativeclient">Where can I get the MS SQLServer native client (a.k.a &quot;NetLib&quot;)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIConfigureTheMSSQLServerNativeClient">How do I configure the MS SQLServer native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateASingle-TierDSNToConnectToMSSQLServer">How do I create a Single-Tier DSN to connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAStandard2-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToMSSQLServer">How do I create a standard (2-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAnApplicationServer3-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToMSSQLServer">How do I create an application server (3-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType1URLToConnectToMSSQLServer">How do I create a JDBC Type 1 URL to connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType3URLToConnectToMSSQLServer">How do I create a JDBC Type 3 URL to connect to MS SQLServer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheDSQUERYEnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the DSQUERY environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheTDSHOSTEnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the TDSHOST environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheTDSPORTEnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the TDSPORT environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheTDSVEREnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the TDSVER environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIMonitorOpenDatabaseSessionsAssociatedWithMSSQLServerODBCConnections">How do I monitor open database sessions associated with MS SQLServer ODBC connections?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhereIsTheMSSQLServerErrorLog">Where is the MS SQLServer error log?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIDumpTheMSSQLServerErrorLog">How do I dump the MS SQLServer error log?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="DoYourDriversConnectToSQLServerDynamicPorts">Do your drivers connect to SQLServer Dynamic Ports?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLServerInstanceName">How do I find mySQLServer instance name?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLServerListenPort">How do I find my SQLServer listen port?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>