<docbook><section><title>SupplementaryPRO</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Supplementary Pre-Install &amp; Configuration Resources By Database </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Progress </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="DoOpenLinkDriversConnectToProgress">Do OpenLink drivers connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhichVersionsOfProgressAreSupportedByOpenLinkDrivers">Which versions of Progress are supported by OpenLink drivers?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIDetectMyProgressDBMSVersion">How can I detect my Progress DBMS version?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatIsTheProgressNativeClient">What is the Progress native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhenDoINeedTheProgressNativeClient">When do I need the Progress native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WherecanIgettheProgressnativeclient">Where can I get the Progress native client (a.k.a &quot;Progress Client Networking&quot;)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIConfigureTheProgressNativeClient">How do I configure the Progress native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateASingle-TierDSNToConnectToProgress">How do I create a Single-Tier DSN to connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAStandard2-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToProgress">How do I create a standard (2-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAnApplicationServer3-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToProgress">How do I create an application server (3-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType1URLToConnectToProgress">How do I create a JDBC Type 1 URL to connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType3URLToConnectToProgress">How do I create a JDBC Type 3 URL to connect to Progress?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheDLCEnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the DLC environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesThePROCFGEnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the PROCFG environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIMonitorOpenDatabaseSessionsAssociatedWithProgressODBCConnections">How do I monitor open database sessions associated with Progress ODBC connections?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhereIsTheProgressErrorLog">Where is the Progress error log?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIDumpTheProgressErrorLog">How do I dump the Progress error log?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanITellIfProgressIsRunningInSocketsOrSharedMemory">How can I tell if Progress is running in sockets or shared memory?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanITellIfProgressIsRunningInSQL89OrSQL92Mode">How can I tell if Progress is running in SQL89 or SQL92 mode?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyProgressDatabaseTcpSocketDefinition">How can I find my Progress database tcp socket definition?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HoweCanIFindTheHostnameAssociatedWithMyProgressDatabaseSocketParameters">Howe can I find the hostname associated with my Progress database socket parameters?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>