<docbook><section><title>SybaseMoneyDataTypeInterpretedAsText</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Application Specific Problems</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Sybase Money Data Type Interpreted as Text</bridgehead>
<para> The Microsoft Jet Engine properly interprets the Microsoft SQL Server MONEY data type as CURRENCY.
 However, Jet wrongly interprets the Sybase MONEY data type as TEXT.
 As a result, OpenLink&#39;s Sybase drivers return &quot;SQLServer&quot; for their DBMS_NAME.
 This makes Access interpret Sybase MONEY data as CURRENCY.<para>If Access interprets your MONEY data as TEXT, insure that you have the latest OpenLink Database Agent.
 You will find the latest Multi-Tier components at the following site:</para><programlisting>http://www.openlinksw.com/main/softdld2.htm 
</programlisting><para> If the problem persists, use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
 Then, find the [generic_sybxx] section which corresponds to your OpenLink Sybase Agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_syb10]
Program     = syb10_mv.exe
Environment = SYBASE10
ReUse       = always
;Directory 	= c:\temp
;ConnectOptions =
;ReadOnly	=
;CommandLine	=
;Database	=
;UserID         =
;Password       =
</programlisting><para> Next, remove the semicolon (;) from <ulink url="CommandLine">CommandLine</ulink> and pass +jetfix to it.
 For example:</para><programlisting>CommandLine = +jetfix 
</programlisting><para> Finally, restart or reinitialize your OpenLink Request Broker and test.
</para></para></section></docbook>