<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDADBMSVersions</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">DBMS Versions</bridgehead>
<para>DBMS server versions can provide a host of information:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Compare your DBMS version with the Multi-Tier database agent version string or Single-Tier driver version.
 Is the DBMS compatible with your Agent or Lite driver? </listitem>
<listitem> Compare your DBMS version with the DBMS version against which OpenLink&#39;s product was built.
 Are they the same? Differences in server version or patch level may contribute to a host of problems including outright compatibility or subtle stability issues.
</listitem>
<listitem> Compare your DBMS version with the operating system version and patch level.
 Does the operating system meet the system requirements of the DBMS? </listitem>
<listitem> Is your DBMS running on Unix? If so, obtain your Unix server kernel tuning parameters.
 Do the tuning parameters match the requirements specified in the DBMS documentation? Insufficient tuning parameters contribute to stability problems.
 In fact, check the tuning parameters on any Unix machine that hosts unstable OpenLink drivers, regardless of whether the DBMS server is actually present.
</listitem>
<listitem> Is your DBMS server version associated with limitations or bugs? Is the DBMS server&#39;s patch level current?</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>Note: Relink your Multi-Tier database agent, if your DBMS version and OpenLink database agent version strings differ.
 Relinking resolves some compatibility issues that arise when OpenLink builds against one set of DBMS libraries and you have a slightly different version of DBMS libraries.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Display Kernel Tuning Parameters Commands</bridgehead>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>AIX</entry><entry><computeroutput>lsattr -E -l sys0</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>FreeBSD</entry><entry><computeroutput>sysctl -a</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>HPUX</entry><entry><computeroutput>sysdef</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>kmtune</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>kmsystem</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>Linux</entry><entry><computeroutput>sysctl -a</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>ulimit -a</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>more /proc/sys/kernel/shmmax</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>more /proc/sys/kernel/shmmni</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>more /proc/sys/kernel/sem</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>SCO OpenServer 5</entry><entry><computeroutput>scoadmin</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>configure</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>cat /etc/conf/cf.d/stune</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>SCO Unixware 7</entry><entry><computeroutput>scoadmin</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>/etc/conf/bin/idtune -g</computeroutput> <emphasis>individual parameter</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>Solaris </entry><entry><computeroutput>sysdef -i</computeroutput></entry></row>
<row><entry>Tru64</entry><entry><computeroutput>sysconfig</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>dxkerneltuner</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>cat /etc/sysconfigtab</computeroutput>  <computeroutput>cat /sys/conf/</computeroutput> <emphasis>HOSTNAME</emphasis> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>