<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAUdbcini</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">udbc.ini Files</bridgehead>
<para>Here are the operative portions of OpenLink&#39;s udbc.ini file:</para><programlisting>[UDBC]
;DebugFile= /tmp/udbc.out

[Communications]
ReceiveTimeout = 120
BrokerTimeout  = 30;
RetryTimeout	= 5
SendSize= 4096
ReceiveSize	 = 16000
ShowErrors= Y
DataEncryption = N

[dsn_oracle]
Description	  = Sample Oracle DSN
Host				= 192.62.13.144
ServerType		= Oracle 8.1.x
FetchBufferSize = 60
Database		  = ORCL
ServerOptions	=
ConnectOptions  =
Options			=
UserName		  = scott
Password		  = tiger
ReadOnly		  = yes

</programlisting><para> Here is a description of important parameters that appear within udbc.ini:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>UDBC</emphasis></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The UDBC section contains the <computeroutput>DebugFile</computeroutput> parameter.
 The <computeroutput>DebugFile</computeroutput> parameter controls UDBC driver tracing.
 You must remove the semicolon from <computeroutput>DebugFile</computeroutput> to instantiate tracing.
 You must also pass the full path to a file to which output may be written.</para><para>You must place a semicolon in front of <computeroutput>DebugFile</computeroutput> to stop debug output.
 In fact, you should normally comment <computeroutput>DebugFile</computeroutput>.
 This prevents generation of enormous files that impact performance and consume disk space.</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Communications</emphasis></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The Communications section contains timeout and other sections that affect the UDBC connection.
 Refer to the Communications FAQ for additional information.</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>DSN</emphasis></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The individual <computeroutput>[dsn]</computeroutput> sections pass the connection parameters that enable the driver to connect to the target database.
 Here is a description of each of the parameters:
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> <computeroutput>[dsn]</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Encloses the name of the Data Source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>Description</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes a description of the use or nature of the Data Source.</entry></row>
<row><entry> <computeroutput>Host</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes the IP address or hostname of the machine, which contains the OpenLink Request Broker.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>ServerType</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes a valid domain alias from the [Domain Aliases] section of the OpenLink server components&#39; oplrqb.ini file.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>FetchBufferSize</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes an integer, which represents the number of rows to return during one fetch operation.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes a database name or Oracle SID.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>ServerOptions</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes database startup parameters. ServerOptions should only be used to resolve issues raised in support cases.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>ConnectOptions</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Deprecated in favor of Options.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>Options</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes specialized database connection parameters. Primarily used with Progress socket options and 3-Tier DSN&#39;s.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>UserName</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes a valid database username.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>Password</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Passes a valid database password.</entry></row>
<row><entry><computeroutput>ReadOnly</computeroutput> </entry><entry>Enables or disables read-only access to the database.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> Insure that no spaces precede the DSN name or its individual parameters.
 Spaces preceding DSN names or parameters are associated with connectivity problems.
</para></section></docbook>