<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDADriverManagerVersions</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Driver Manager Versions</bridgehead>
<para>You can use Driver Manager version information to identify bugs, limitations, or known issues associated with the Driver Manager.
 You must employ different means to obtain Driver Manager version information based on client operating system.</para><para><emphasis>Microsoft Windows Driver Manager</emphasis> Version and File information appears on the About tab of the ODBC Data Sources Administrator.
 The ODBC Data Sources Administrator appears in the Control Panel or Administrative Tools sub-folder of the Control Panel.</para><para><emphasis>Mac OS X Driver Manager</emphasis> Version, File, and Date information appears on the About tab of the iODBC Data Sources Administrator.</para><para><emphasis>iODBC Driver Manager</emphasis> version information can be obtained by running one of the following commands from the bin sub-directory of their OpenLink client installation, so long as you have a UDA 4.0 or newer release.
 Pre-UDA 4.0 releases do not print version information:</para><programlisting># strings libiodbc.so | grep [Dd]river\ [Mm]anager
@(#)iODBC driver manager 3.0.8
[iODBC][Driver Manager]
iODBC Driver Manager

# strings libiodbc.so | grep iODBC
@(#)iODBC driver manager 3.0.8
[iODBC][Driver Manager]
iODBC Driver Manager
** iODBC Trace file **
</programlisting><para> Note: Mac Classic and Unix client applications may use Intersolv, Merant, or unixODBC Driver Managers.
 Use the appropriate means to obtain these Driver Manager versions.
 Furthermore, insure that you take the appropriate steps to use non-OpenLink Driver Managers with OpenLink drivers.
 You may symlink 3rd-party Driver Manager file names to OpenLink&#39;s iODBC Driver Manager (libiodbc.so) on Unix clients.
 Alternatively, you may may configure 3rd-party Unix odbc.ini and odbcinst.ini files to contain OpenLink DSNs and driver setups, respectively.
</para></section></docbook>