<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAset</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Output of set</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink&#39;s Unix components require the following ODBC environment variables to be set:
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Definition</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>CLASSPATH</entry><entry>A JAVA client variable that passes the full path to an OpenLink JDBC .jar file. This variable should appear on all systems that contain OpenLink JDBC client components.    </entry></row>
<row><entry>LD_ LIBRARY_PATH</entry><entry> A generic library path variable that appends the full path to OpenLink&#39;s lib sub-directory. This variable should be set on any non-AIX or non-HP machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.    </entry></row>
<row><entry>LIBPATH</entry><entry> An AIX library path variable that appends the full path to OpenLink&#39;s lib sub-directory. This variable should be set on any AIX machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.   </entry></row>
<row><entry>ODBCINI</entry><entry>Passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/odbc.ini. This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client components.   </entry></row>
<row><entry>ODBCINSTINI</entry><entry>Passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini. This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client components.   </entry></row>
<row><entry>OPENLINKINI </entry><entry>This Single-Tier variable passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/openlink.ini. This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier client components.   </entry></row>
<row><entry>PATH</entry><entry> Appends the full path to OpenLink&#39;s bin sub-directory. This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.   </entry></row>
<row><entry>SHLIB_PATH</entry><entry>An HP/UX library path variable that appends the full path to OpenLink&#39;s lib sub-directory. This variable should be set on any HP/UX machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.   </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> <computeroutput>set</computeroutput> output should be checked against <computeroutput>ls</computeroutput> output for the relevant directories structures.
 This shows:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Which environment variables are set.
</listitem>
<listitem> Which environment variables are missing.
</listitem>
<listitem> Whether or not variable paths are correct.
</listitem>
<listitem> Whether or not permissions prevent access to files or directories.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>OpenLink&#39;s drivers also require database specific environment variables.
 <computeroutput>set</computeroutput> should be run before Single-Tier client installation or Multi-Tier server component installation.
 Users must insure that the relevant database native environment variables are set.
 This enables OpenLink&#39;s installers to detect the settings and write them into Single-Tier openlink.ini or Multi-Tier oplrqb.ini file.
</para></section></docbook>