<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQCannotStopBroker</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.CannotStopBroker</title> doc.FAQ.CannotStopBroker
<para> Take the following actions, if you cannot shutdown your Request Broker:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Login to the machine that contains your Multi-Tier server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file that appears in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Locate the [Request Broker] section.
</listitem>
<listitem>Locate the <ulink url="HostNameResolver">HostNameResolver</ulink>  parameter.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure that there are no semicolons in front of <ulink url="HostNameResolver">HostNameResolver</ulink>  . </listitem>
<listitem>Set <ulink url="HostNameResolver">HostNameResolver</ulink>  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>No.
</para><programlisting>[Request Broker] BinaryDirectory = c:\openlink\openlink software\uda\multi-tier\v5.0\bin CommandLine = -dv Protocols = tcp ;MaxAgents = 0 ;MaxConnections = 0 HostNameResolver = No 
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Locate the [Security] section.
</listitem>
<listitem>Place a semicolon in front of <ulink url="ShutdownBy">ShutdownBy</ulink>  and <ulink url="ShutdownFrom">ShutdownFrom</ulink>  . <programlisting>[Security] StartupBy = root, .* ;ShutdownBy = root, .* ;ShutdownFrom = arthur.*, 172.17.250.25, localhost.*,127.0.0.1. 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>Save your changes.
</listitem>
<listitem>Forcibly terminate your Broker will kill or its equivalent.
</listitem>
<listitem>Restart your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem>Test normal shutdown.
If the problem persists:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Open your server&#39;s oplrqb.ini file.
</listitem>
<listitem>Locate the [Security] section.
</listitem>
<listitem>Remove the semicolons from <ulink url="ShutdownBy">ShutdownBy</ulink>  and <ulink url="ShutdownFrom">ShutdownFrom</ulink>  . </listitem>
<listitem>Pass *, 127.0.0.1, and the other following values to <ulink url="ShutdownBy">ShutdownBy</ulink>  and <ulink url="ShutdownFrom">ShutdownFrom</ulink>  . <programlisting>[Security] StartupBy =*, .*, root ShutdownBy = *, .*, root ShutdownFrom = *, *.*, arthur.*, 172.17.250.25, localhost, localhost.*,127.0.0.1 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>Save your changes.
</listitem>
<listitem>Restart your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem>Test.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>