<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQIDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMyMulti-TierDSNWhatDoIDo</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.IDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMyMulti-TierDSNWhatDoIDo</title> doc.FAQ.IDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMyMulti-<ulink url="TierDSNWhatDoIDo">TierDSNWhatDoIDo</ulink>
<para>  <emphasis>Name </emphasis>  <emphasis>Description </emphasis>  <emphasis>Server </emphasis></para><programlisting>[Request Broker] BinaryDirectory = c:\openlink\openlink software\uda\multi-tier\v5.1\bin CommandLine = Protocols = tcp ;MaxAgents = 0 ;MaxConnections = 0 HostNameResolver = Yes LingerTimeout = 0 [Protocol TCP] PingWatchdog = No PingInterval = 600 ;IPAddress = 127.0.0.1 PortLow = 5025 PortHigh = 6000 Listen = 5025 
</programlisting><para> </para><programlisting>hostname:port 
</programlisting><para> Domain This field passes the name of a valid Domain Alias.
 A full list of Domain Aliases appears in the Session Rules Book.
 The Session Rules Book is the oplrqb.ini file that appears in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components installation.
 It may be opened with any text editor.
 Here is a sample [Domain Aliases] list:</para><programlisting>[Domain Aliases] DB2 = db2 Informix 7.3 = inf5 Informix 2000 = inf6 Ingres II = ing6 Odbc = odbc Oracle 8.1.x = ora8 
</programlisting><para>  <emphasis>Database </emphasis> Login ID This field passes the username that you need to pass to connect to your database.
 This username may be a standard database username.
 However, if you use the specialized OPSYSLOGIN parameter, you need to pass operating system authentication parameters.
 If you do not know your database username, you must consult your Database Administrator.
 Password This field passes the password that you need to pass to connect to your database.
 This password may be a standard database password.
 However, if you use the specialized OPSYSLOGIN parameter, you need to pass operating system authentication parameters.
 If you do not know your database username, you must consult your Database Administrator.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>