<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQCannotStartBroker</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.CannotStartBroker</title> doc.FAQ.CannotStartBroker
<para>  <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Request Brokers are listening services.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s 4.x and newer Brokers listen on the TCP port that is passed to the Listen parameter.
 The Listen parameter appears in the Protocol TCP section of the Session Rules Book.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s 3.x and 1.x Brokers listen on <ulink url="PortLow">PortLow</ulink>  . <ulink url="PortLow">PortLow</ulink>  appears in the Protocol TCP section of the Session Rules Book.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Request Brokers also use UDP port 60001 to broadcast license information.</para><para>Use the following guidelines to troubleshoot Broker startup issues:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Ensure that <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Request Broker is installed.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure that Unix Request Brokers are executable.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run oplrqb -? from the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components installation.
 Ensure that the Request Broker returns version and usage information.
 Troubleshoot errors, as required.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run uname -a on Unix servers.
 Compare the Broker&#39;s platform of compilation with the platform identified with uname -a.
 Ensure that the platform of compilation is compatible with the platform returned by uname -a.
 Install more suitable builds, as appropriate.
</listitem>
<listitem>Open the Session Rules Book and identify the Broker listening port.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run netstat -an, or an equivalent network utility, to check for existing activity on the Broker&#39;s listening port.
 Reassign a free port, or wait for previous listeners to be cleared (up to 2 minutes) as required.
</listitem>
<listitem>Obtain operating system patch information.
 Some patches may interfere with the Broker&#39;s ability to run.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>