<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQMyBrokerShutsDownIntermittentlyWhatDoIDo</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.MyBrokerShutsDownIntermittentlyWhatDoIDo</title> doc.FAQ.MyBrokerShutsDownIntermittentlyWhatDoIDo
<para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Patch databases and operating systems, as appropriate.
</listitem>
<listitem>Contact database and o/s vendors to see if patches are associated with problems.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure Unix kernel tuning parameters match parameters specified by database and o/s documentation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure your machine has adequate memory and processor resources.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink>  is set in the [Protocol TCP] section of the Multi-Tier Session Rules Book.
 This is the oplrqb.ini file that resides in the /bin sub-directory of the server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multi-Tier users perform the following test: </listitem>
<listitem>login to the machine that contains the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run oplshut -s on the command-line.
</listitem>
<listitem>Compare the output to the Windows Task Manager or Unix ps -ef.
</listitem>
<listitem>Upgrade server components if oplshut shows fewer processes when compared to the Task Manager or ps.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multi-Tier users experiment with database agent reuse.
 Users should comparison test the following values: </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame process, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame application, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame database, upto 5</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>