<docbook><section><title>UdadocArticleodbclinkedserver</title><para> </para><title> doc.Article.odbclinkedserver</title> doc.Article.odbclinkedserver
<para> The Microsoft SQLServer Linked Servers functionality provides the following features:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Access to remote SQL Server DBMS.
</listitem>
<listitem>Distributed query capability across heterogeneous data stores.
</listitem>
<listitem>Standardized access to heterogeneous data stores via T-SQL.
</listitem>
<listitem>Simultaneous access to remote SQL Servers and third-party data stores.
By using the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Drivers in conjunction with linked servers you are presented with these additional features:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Access to more enterprise-relational databases including DB2, Informix, Ingres, <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , Oracle, <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  , Progress, and Sybase.
</listitem>
<listitem>Access to other ODBC-compliant data sources and JDBC data sources via sophisticated bridge technologies.
</listitem>
<listitem>Platform-independent data access.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  drivers bring ODBC connectivity to Windows, Linux, Mac, VAX/VMS, and Unix operating systems.
</listitem>
<listitem>Support for a wide array of client/server and application-server (n-tier) data-access architectures.
</listitem>
<listitem>encryption and an advanced, rules-based security paradigm.
 (Multi-Tier drivers only) </listitem>
<listitem>Use of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  native <ulink url="OleDB">OleDB</ulink>  provider.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;&#39;s native provider is designed for use with a broader spectrum of ODBC data sources.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;&#39;s provider also provides scrollable-cursor support and other improvements.
By combining the benefits of Linked Servers, including its ability to integrate and leverage legacy systems, to use existing staff skills, reduce storage and increase performance through its distributed architecture, it is possible to combine these benefits with that provided by the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC drivers.
 These benefits come about through its increased integration, its broad support for data-stores, client/server architecture and operating systems.
 Allied to this is its own performance increases via its Single-Tier &amp; Multi-Tier drivers.
 Most importantly, enhanced security implementation made possible by the Multi-Tier driver suite&#39;&#39;s Rules-based management system.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>To demonstrate a Linked Server in action, we will connect to a Progress database stored on an AIX server.
 The steps to achieve this are:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Open your SQLServer Enterprise Manager </listitem>
<listitem>Expand the following Tree Structure: Console Root</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>&gt;Microsoft SQL Servers</para><para>&gt;SQL Server Group</para><para>&gt;Your Actual SQLServer--&gt;Security </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Right-click on Linked Servers and select &quot;New Linked Server.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>Supply the following information on your General tab: </listitem>
<listitem>Linked Server: Any name you like (Check Other Data Source) </listitem>
<listitem>Provider Name: Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers </listitem>
<listitem>Product Name: MSDASQL </listitem>
<listitem>Data Source: Valid <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  DSN Name </listitem>
<listitem>This is the minimum information you need to supply.
 Feel free to check any server options on the bottom of the tab.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click on the Security tab and review your options </listitem>
<listitem>Click OK to create your server.
</listitem>
<listitem>Exit the Linked Server dialog box and the SQLServer Enterprise Manager.
</listitem>
<listitem>Open the SQLServer Query Analyzer.
</listitem>
<listitem>Finally, on creating our linked server, we can run the following query to test it.
This concludes the session on creating Linked Servers using the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>