<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexuimbenefits</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.uimbenefits</title> doc.Index.index.uimbenefits
<para> Standards-compliance ensures that you retain the Freedom to Mix and Match best-of-class combinations of existing and future Operating Systems, Programming Environments, Database Engines and Data-Access Middleware that best support your organization&#39;&#39;s needs.</para><para>Virtuoso will never lead you into a technology cul-de-sac where ultimate exit and changeover costs are prohibitive, nor stifle your organization&#39;&#39;s growth and dynamism.</para><para>XML and Web Services are redefining the concept of presence on the Internet, with Virtuoso providing a cost-effective bandwagon entry-point along the following lines:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>You can rapidly transform your current Web Site to a syndicated content-subscription point, delivering content in popular XML formats such as RSS, ATOM and RDF by leveraging Virtuoso&#39;&#39;s ability to transform existing SQL or XML into any data representation format.
</listitem>
<listitem>You can expose or publish internal application functions as SOAP-, WSDL- and UDDI- compliant Web Services.
By implementing multiple protocols in a single server solution you no longer have to take the costly approach of building your enterprise IS infrastructure with an every-increasing pool of costly, disparate and protocol-specific servers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Virtuoso implements many industry-standard protocols in tandem, delivering the widely varied services that emanate from these protocols in a single, multi-purpose and multi-protocol server, as opposed to multiple single-purpose server offerings.</para><para>Web Services is the technology of choice for integration across disparate application within your enterprise.
 It is also the technology of choice for exposing internal application logic for external consumption via the Web.</para><para>Virtuoso Web Services support enables you to publish existing application logic modules as SOAP- and WSDL-compliant Web Services without re-writing existing code - which inevitably introduces new bugs.
 Supported module include SQL stored procedures, .NET classes, Java Classes, C++ Classes, C functions and more.</para><para>Virtuoso&#39;&#39;s core is a pioneering Virtual Database Engine that uses industry-standard data-access technologies to provide transparent access to disparate SQL, XML , Free Text and other data sources.</para><para>A single ODBC-, ADO .Net-, JDBC- or OLE DB-client connection to Virtuoso can connect you transparently to tables hosted in multiple NET-, ODBC- or JDBC-accessible database - facilitating heterogeneous joins across these databases, and the generation of XML document and data fragments.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>