<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowConfigMT</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowConfigMT</title> doc.FAQ.HowConfigMT
<para> Windows and Mac client users do not need to perform additional steps to configure their Multi-Tier clients.
 Unix client users must ensure that their <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  environment variables are set.
 The following instructions will assist these users with this task:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Users must login to their Unix clients.
</listitem>
<listitem>Users must cd into the root of their <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Users may run openlink.sh in a Bash or Bourne shell.
 Alternatively, users may run openlink.csh in a C shell.
All users must ensure that their server components are properly configured.
 The following instructions will assist all users with this task:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Unix users must login to their Unix servers and cd into the root of their <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  installations.
 These users may run openlink.sh in a Bourne or Bash shell.
 Alternatively if you are using a C shell, you require openlink.csh.
</listitem>
<listitem>All users must open their Session Rules Books.
 The Session Rules Book is the oplrqb.ini file, which reside in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  installation.
 Users may open oplrqb.ini with vi, Notepad, or another text editor.
 Locate the <emphasis>Environment </emphasis> section that corresponds to your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  database agent and set the variables that are appropriate to to your Database setup.
 Typically, the main information required is the installation directory and location of the database libraries.
 If you are unsure what these values are, please request them from your Database or System administrator.
 Typically running the command `env&#39; under the guise of the database owner will provide you with the necessary information </listitem>
<listitem>Users must start their <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Request Broker services.
 To do this on Unix, from the shell or terminal prompt run ./oplrqb either from the /bin sub-directory of your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  installation or if openlink.sh/csh has been run, anywhere in the system.
 Windows users may start oplrqb with their Services Control Panel utility.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>