<docbook><section><title>UnableToOpenPROMSGS</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: Unable to open message file: PROMSGS </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to open message file: PROMSGS</computeroutput> 
<para>This error typically arises when the Progress <computeroutput>PROMSGS</computeroutput> environment variable is not set.
 If you are receiving such errors, follow the guide for your driver architecture --</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Multi-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open the active Rulebook (default, <computeroutput>&lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESSXXX]</computeroutput> section which corresponds to your database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
DLC = C:/Pro82aDLC
Path = C:/Pro82aDLC/BIN;D:/WINNT/System32
;PROMSGS = C:/DLC
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Insure that <computeroutput>PROMSGS</computeroutput> is uncommented (no leading semicolon, &quot;;&quot;) and set to the full path to your local <computeroutput>promsgs</computeroutput> file.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A] 
DLC = C:/Pro82aDLC 
Path = C:/Pro82aDLC/BIN;D:/WINNT/System32 
PROMSGS = C:/Pro82aDLC/bin/promsgs
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart your Broker and test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Single-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<para> </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open the <emphasis>System</emphasis> control panel.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the variable on the <emphasis>Environment</emphasis> or <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
 If you have a choice between System and User variables, set this under System.
 For example: <programlisting>PROMSGS    C:/DLC/bin/promsgs
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> If you do not have the System utility, you will need to set <computeroutput>PROMSGS</computeroutput> in your <computeroutput>autoexec.bat</computeroutput>.
 You will also need to reboot.
 Here is a sample <computeroutput>autoexec.bat</computeroutput> entry: <programlisting>set PROMSGS=C:/DLC/bin/promsgs
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Evidence </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Request Broker Log (<computeroutput>oplrqb.log</computeroutput>) </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Rulebook  (<computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>) </listitem>
<listitem> Environment variable settings (output of <computeroutput>env</computeroutput> and/or <computeroutput>set</computeroutput>)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>