<docbook><section><title>UnableToOpenConvmap</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (U)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Unable to open convmap.cp</bridgehead>
<para>-convmap is the Progress Conversion Map parameter.
 The corresponding file--convmap.cp--is stored in the Progress DLC directory.
 If you are experience -convmap errors, take the following action:</para><para><emphasis>Single-Tier Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Locate your PC client&#39;s DLC directory.</para><para>2.
 Search DLC for convmap.pc.</para><para>3.
 If you cannot find convmap.pc or DLC, contact Progress.</para><para>4.
 If you find convmap.pc, open your Windows System utility.</para><para>5.
 Set your PROGRESSINI and DLC environment variables.
 You may set variables using the Environment tab (NT) or the Advanced tab&#39;s Environment button (W2K).
 For example:</para><programlisting>DLC=C:\full\path\to\Progress\root\directory PROGRESSINI=C:\full\path\to\DLC\bin\progress.ini
</programlisting><para><emphasis>Multi-Tier Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open your Session Rules Book (oplrqb.ini).
 The Rules Book appears in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [Environment PROGRESSXXX] section, which corresponds to your OpenLink Progress database agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Set DLC.</para><para>4.
 Set PATH (WinNT) or PROCFG (Unix).</para><para>5.
 Restart your OpenLink Request Broker to initialize any changes.</para><para>6.
 Test.
</para></section></docbook>