<docbook><section><title>UnknownHost</title><title> Error Message: Unknown Host </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unknown Host</computeroutput> 
<para>The &quot;unknown host&quot; error message suggests environment or hostname resolution problems.
 If you receive such errors, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Navigate to the root directory of your OpenLink client installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the OpenLink environment by running the appropriate script for your shell.
 The following will work in most environments, but your required command may differ -- 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> sh, bash, zsh and related </entry><entry> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki. ./openlink.sh</span> </entry></row>
<row><entry> ksh and related </entry><entry> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikisource ./openlink.sh</span> </entry></row>
<row><entry> csh, tcsh and related </entry><entry> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikisource ./openlink.csh</span> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
<listitem> Run the following command: <programlisting>echo $ODBCINI
</programlisting><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If ODBCINI is set, re-test your connection.
</listitem>
<listitem> If ODBCINI is not set, continue with the steps below. </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client installation. </listitem>
<listitem> Open <computeroutput>openlink.sh</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>openlink.csh</computeroutput> (whichever you ran above) in a text editor. </listitem>
<listitem> Record the variable settings found there, and close the file. </listitem>
<listitem> Set all the variables on your command line.
 For example: <programlisting>export ODBCINI=/usr/openlink/bin/odbc.ini
export ODBCINSTINI=/usr/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini
export UDBCINI=/usr/openlink/bin/udbc.ini
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection. </listitem>
<listitem> If the problem persists, open your odbc.ini file.
 You will find this file in the /bin sub-directory of your client&#39;s OpenLink installation.
  <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Locate your DSN.
 For example: <programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver          = /usr/openlink/lib/oplodbc.sl.1
Description     = Sample OpenLink DSN
Host            = broker-host.example.com
Port            = 5000
ServerType      = SQLServer 7
FetchBufferSize = 99
UserName        = sa
Password        =
Database        = Northwind
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Change the <computeroutput>Host</computeroutput> value from a FQDN (fully-qualified domain name), to the IP address of the target host.
 For example: <programlisting>Host               =   10.10.10.10
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and test once more.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>