<docbook><section><title>UserDoesNotHavePermissionFlagsGiven</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: User does not have permission to use one of the flags given. (-34000) </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>User does not have permission to use one of the flags given. (-34000)</computeroutput> 
<para>&quot;<computeroutput>User does not have permission to use one of the flags given. (-34000)</computeroutput>&quot; is a permissions error that may occur when users attempt to query Ingres databases.
 Typically, this error indicates that the Multi-Tier server-side components (Request Broker and Database Agent) are not running as the Ingres owning user.</para><para>To resolve this problem, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the machine that contains your Multi-Tier server components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Type &#39;<computeroutput>bash</computeroutput>&#39; or &#39;<computeroutput>sh</computeroutput>&#39; to open a Bash or Bourne shell.
</listitem>
<listitem> Navigate to the main directory of your Multi-Tier installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute the following commands: <programlisting>. ./openlink.sh
oplrqb -fy
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Use <computeroutput>chmod</computeroutput> to enable your Ingres user to run <computeroutput>oplrqb</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use <computeroutput>chmod</computeroutput> to enable your Ingres user to read <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use <computeroutput>chmod</computeroutput> to enable your Ingres user to write to <computeroutput>oplrqb.log</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run this command: <programlisting>cd ..
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Use <computeroutput>chmod</computeroutput> to enable your Ingres user to execute <computeroutput>openlink.sh</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>su</computeroutput> to your Ingres user.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the Ingres user&#39;s environment, typically with <programlisting>. ./.profile
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Navigate to the root of your Multi-Tier installation, and execute these commands: <programlisting>. ./openlink.sh
oplrqb +debug
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Test.
</listitem>
<listitem> After all is confirmed to be working, ctrl-C to terminate the DEBUG mode Broker, and then restart as usual.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Evidence </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Database Agent Version String </listitem>
<listitem> DBMS Version </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>