<docbook><section><title>YouAreNotAuthorizedToInitiateShutdown</title><para> </para><title> UDA Error Message: You are not authorized to initiate shutdown </title> UDA Error Message: <computeroutput>You are not authorized to initiate shutdown</computeroutput> 
<para>Take the following action to rectify this problem.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your Broker Rulebook (<computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> by default) in a text editor (vi, emacs, <ulink url="TextEdit">TextEdit</ulink>, BBEdit, Notepad, Wordpad, etc.).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Request Broker]</computeroutput> section.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>HostNameResolver</computeroutput> parameter.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that there are no semicolons in front of <computeroutput>HostNameResolver</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set <computeroutput>HostNameResolver=No</computeroutput>, as -- <programlisting>[Request Broker]
...
HostNameResolver = No
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Security]</computeroutput> section.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure there are no semicolons in front of <computeroutput>ShutdownBy</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>ShutdownFrom</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the user issuing the shutdown command (e.g., <computeroutput>george</computeroutput>), and the hostname and/or IP address of the machine from which they&#39;re issuing the shutdown command (typically the Broker host itself; e.g., broker-host, broker-host.example.com, 192.168.123.234), are respectively found in the <computeroutput>ShutdownBy</computeroutput> (username) and <computeroutput>ShutdownFrom</computeroutput> (hostname, IP address) values.
 Note that regex is active on these values, so you must escape the dot-separators in IP addresses and host names.
<programlisting>[Security]
StartupBy = root, george
ShutdownBy = root, george
ShutdownFrom = arthur, arthur\.example\.com, 192\.168\.123\.234, localhost, 127\.0\.0\.1
</programlisting>You may wish to test with these set to wildcard values, but note that this is a potential security issue which may enable Denial Of Service and other attacks.
<programlisting>[Security]
StartupBy = *, .*
ShutdownBy = *, .*
ShutdownFrom = *, .*
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes.
</listitem>
<listitem> Force-quit the Request Broker, using the Process Manager on Windows, <computeroutput>kill</computeroutput> command on Unix, or similar techniques.
 Confirm that the process has been terminated before proceeding.
</listitem>
<listitem> Launch your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test a friendly Broker shutdown, using <computeroutput>oplshut</computeroutput>, Services control panel on Windows, etc.
<programlisting>. ./openlink.sh
oplshut -fy
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the error has been resolved.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Evidence </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Broker Rulebook</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>