<docbook><section><title>OdsApplicationSuite</title><para>   </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces Framework &amp; Application Suite</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Spaces is an expanding line of Virtuoso-based applications for establishing and managing one&#39;s presence on the  web and the emerging semantic web.
 The applications include web based social networking, blog, file sharing and more.</para>
<para>If you have installed Virtuoso, you can start using any of the applications listed on this page by just <ulink url="OdsDownload">downloading a single file</ulink> from our download page and installing this with a single SQL command.
 After this, you can point a web browser at the application and start using it.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODS Framework</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Frameworkd includes an complete data environment, intelligent content integration, user profiles, tags, comprehensive search and more.
 Read more on the <ulink url="OdsFramework">ODS Framework</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Application Suite</bridgehead>
<para>This is the core of the ODS application suite.
 This handles user registration, profiles, social networks  and managing each user&#39;s personal collection of applications such as blogs, file sharing  etc.
 The current release of ODS includes the following applications:</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS Briefcase</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Briefcase is a web based file sharing platform built on Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> server.
 ODS Briefcase allows fine-grained control of file access rights, search based on content and metadata, alternate views of <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resources organized by metadata and more.</para>
<para>All the content that can be read and written via ODS Briefcase is also read/write accessible via the <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> protocol, for easy mounting into a Windows or Mac OSX file system.
 Read more on  <ulink url="OdsBriefcase">ODS Briefcase</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS Weblog</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Weblog is the complete blogging solution, providing all common feed formats, templating, web services API&#39;s, automatic pinging, post categorization and more.
 ODS Weblog supports multiple authors as well as inclusion of blogs for forming community blogs.
 Read more about the <ulink url="OdsBlog">ODS Blog</ulink> application.</para>
<para> </para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>