<docbook><section><title>OdsBookmarkManagerFAQ</title><para> </para>
<title> Bookmark Manager FAQ</title> Bookmark Manager FAQ
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">General</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is ODS Bookmark Manager?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Bookmark manager is an integrated bookmarking tool that allows you to save and organize your favorite web page or blogs.
 Bookmark Manager provides an simple web-based interface where you can add and tag links and file under folders for quick searches and instant viewing.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Bookmark Management</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I create a bookmark?</bridgehead>
<para>To create a bookmark, select the &quot;New Bookmark&quot; ICON in the navigation toolbar at the top.
 In the Add Bookmark form, enter a Name for the bookmark, the URL location of the web site or blog, enter a tag, a brief description and create or choose from a list of folders, then click the &quot;Save&quot; button.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I create folders?</bridgehead>
<para>To create a folder, select the &quot;New Folder&quot; Icon in the navigation toolbar at the top.
 Under the folder/create form select the parent folder from the pull-down list and enter the name of the new folder.
 Additionally, you can crate new folder at the same time you add or modify a bookmark.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I import my bookmarks from other applications?</bridgehead>
<para>You can include any bookmarks from Firefox, Internet Explorer or any book marking system.
 First, you must save your bookmarks from the other application to a file.
 Then to import your bookmarks, select the &quot;Import&quot; ICON and then browse to the location of the file and select this file containing the exported bookmarks.
 Sample scenario you can find <ulink url="OdsBookmarkImport">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I export my bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>Bookmarks can be exported in HTML format to be included in any bookmark system.
 To export your bookmarks select the &quot;Export&quot; ICON from the Navigation toolbar at the top and then choose save.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I edit/delete my bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>To delete a bookmark browse through the folders containing the bookmarks, the put a check mark next to the bookmark you want to delete and click the &quot;Delete&quot; ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the top.
 To edit perform the same steps as above, but instead of selecting the &quot;Delete&quot; ICON, choose the &quot;Properties&quot; ICON.
 Under properties, you can rename the bookmark, modify the URL, add or remove the tag, modify the description and change the folder.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Can I rename or move my bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes; to rename a bookmark browse through the folders containing the bookmarks, the put a check mark next to the bookmark you want to delete and click the &quot;Rename&quot; ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the top.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is a bookmarklet?</bridgehead>
<para>The bookmarklet is a small program that allows the Bookmark Manager application stored as a URL shortcut within a bookmark or bookmark toolbar Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Firefox or other web browsers.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Tags</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is a tag?</bridgehead>
<para>A tag is a keyword used to organize or categorize your feeds for quick searches.
 Like ODS Feed Manager, ODS Bookmark Manager has an optional display, which will show all your tags as Tag Cloud, which will display your tags in different size fonts base on usage.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I create a tag?</bridgehead>
<para>You can create a tag when adding a new bookmark or by browsing through the folders containing the bookmarks, the put a check mark next to the bookmark you want to tag and click the &quot;Tag&quot; ICON in the Navigation toolbar at the top.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I view my tags?</bridgehead>
<para>You can view tagged bookmarks by selecting the &quot;Show Tags&quot; Link in the Navigation tool bar at the top.
 Tags are displayed in various font size to depict the tag usage.
 The more frequent the larger the font for the specific tag.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Syndication</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What feed formats are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>Bookmark Manager supports the following RSS, ATOM, RDF and XBEL feed formats.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Search</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I search bookmark manager?</bridgehead>
<para>You can search bookmark manager using a simple keyword search at the top by entering a keyword and selecting search.
 Optionally, you can select the Advanced link and enter a list of keyword, enter an expression or a list of tags.
 Search results include the name and location of the bookmark and syndication options including RSS, ATOM, RDF and XBEL formats.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Web Services</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is the services endpoint?</bridgehead>
<para>SIOC predicates are added for the new services at:</para>
<programlisting>http://[host][port]/dataspace/services/bookmark
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Which services are implemented?</bridgehead>
<para>The services are:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>bookmark_import </listitem>
<listitem>bookmark_export </listitem>
<listitem>bookmark_update</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>For more details see <ulink url="ODSBookmarkManagerProgrammersGuideWebServices">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How can subscribe to URL accessible Bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>You can subscribe to URL accessible Bookmarks using the Bookmark Manager Subscription feature.
 More details and sample scenario you can find <ulink url="OdsBookmarkSubscr">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">How can I Publish my Bookmarks to Bookmark format for exchange with 3rd party Bookmark compliant applications?</bridgehead>
<para>You can publish calendar items to Bookmark format using the Bookmark Manager Publications feature.
 More details and sample scenario you can find <ulink url="OdsBookmarkPublish">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Can I Share my Bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 Bookmark manager offers sharing feature within the ODS registered users.
 For more information and sample scenario see <ulink url="OdsBookmarkShare">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Can I Export my Bookmarks?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 Bookmark manager offers export feature within the ODS registered users.
 For more information and sample scenario see <ulink url="OdsBookmarkExport">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What Bookmarks Ubiquity Commands are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>A full list and examples of Bookmarks ubiquity commands you can find <ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityBookmarks">here</ulink>.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsBookmark">CategoryOdsBookmark</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryBookmark">CategoryBookmark</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>