<docbook><section><title>OdsBriefcase</title><title> Briefcase</title> Briefcase
<para>The ODS Briefcase is a <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>-compliant platform that offers file-sharing functionality via a &quot;Briefcase Data Space&quot;.
 Its standards-compliance enables the exploitation of File Server functionality via the following methods: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Web Browser-based interactions </listitem>
<listitem>Web Services - direct use of the HTTP based <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> protocol </listitem>
<listitem>Semantic Web&#39;s SPARQL Query Language - all <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resources are exposed as SIOC Ontology instance data (RDF Data Sets)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Key Features</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Automatic Metadata Management - ODS automatically extracts file metadata from a wide array of file formats at file upload time.
 The metadata is available in two forms -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Pure <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> and </listitem>
<listitem>RDF-XML or N3/Turtle, optionally synchronized with the underlying Virtuoso Triple Store.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Automatic metadata-extraction from many known file types - MS Office, Open Office, Open Document Format, Content Syndication Formats (RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0, Atom, OPML, OCS), (X)HTML, Web Services Contract Files (BPEL, WSDL), XBRL, XBEL, FOAF, iCalendar, hCalendar, vCARD, Google Base Items, and other formats.
</listitem>
<listitem>Powerful Full-Text Search - including <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> metadata, physical properties such as path, filename, content words, individual and group ownership, mime type, date range, and tags </listitem>
<listitem>Flexible Data Access - all Briefcase data is accessible via SPARQL, GData, and Briefcase Service-specific Web Services </listitem>
<listitem>Open Data Access - transparent integration with any <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>-compliant environment, e.g., Mac OS X Finder, Windows Network Places, Linux DAV Mount, and others </listitem>
<listitem>Security - UNIX-like file-permission system or Access Control Lists (ACLs) </listitem>
<listitem>Unified Storage  - a central storage and access point for all ODS application data </listitem>
<listitem>Virtual <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> Resources - even when the actual data in question isn&#39;t a physical <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> resource it can still be viewed in the Briefcase via Virtual <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> VIEWs </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SmartFolder">Smart Folders</ulink> for custom association of resource types with virtual folders.
 For example, you can navigate to, or enter, the path DAV/home/[username]/Items/Graphics/Type/JPEG to list all the graphic images that are of type JPEG for a given user.
</listitem>
<listitem>Resource tagging - enabling the categorization of content by user-defined tags.
 These tags are also usable within Free Text Searches of Briefcase content </listitem>
<listitem>Shared Folders View - shows all collections and resources to which the user has been granted access </listitem>
<listitem>Version Control - Versioning can be enabled for any resource using any client supporting the <ulink url="DeltaV">DeltaV</ulink> core feature set.
 Historical versions of resources will appear in a separate virtual folder.
 <ulink url="DeltaV">DeltaV</ulink> core <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> methods are supported for resources for which versioning has been enabled.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSBriefcaseProgrammersGuideWebServices">Services</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseManageMetadata">Manage Metadata?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseVC">Manage Resource Versions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseFolders">Manage different Briefcase type folders?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeatureRDFA">Create a Linked Data Resource with RDFa content?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VOSDET">Use Virtuoso DAV Extensions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsWebDAVBrowse">Browse files/folders content?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsControllersBriefcase">Manipulate My data via REST using authentication based on OAuth, sessions, or password hash?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBriefcase">Use the Virtuoso OAuth Test tool to manage My data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseGettingStarted">Create new folder in My Briefcase?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityBriefcase">Use the Briefcase Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSRDFSinkFolder">Get Data into Virtuoso Quad Store via the ODS-Briefcase&#39;s special RDF Sink Folder?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/DynamicFolder">Manage Dynamic folders?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSBriefcaseSubscr">Retrieve content from external web sites?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Use ODS-Briefcase to mediate access to data stored on...
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseAmazonS3">... Amazon S3?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseDropBox">... DropBox?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseSkyDrive">... Microsoft OneDrive (formerly SkyDrive)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseGoogleDrive">... GoogleDrive?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseBoxNet">... Box (box.com a/k/a box.net)?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="WebID">WebID</ulink> ACL protect remote data collected store on...
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseAmazonS3WebIDACL">... Amazon S3?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseDropBoxWebIDACL">... DropBox?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseSkyDriveWebIDACL">... Microsoft OneDrive (formerly SkyDrive)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseGoogleDriveWebIDACL">... GoogleDrive?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseBoxNetWebIDACL">... Box (box.com a/k/a box.net)?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSBriefcaseShare">Share resources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSBriefcaseWebID">Use WebID Protocol for enhanced ODS-Briefcase (WebDAV) Access Control Lists (ACLs)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSPARQLSecurityWebIDSPARQLASKExample">Constrain Resource Access To Group Members using SPARQL ASK Query and Web-accessible Linked Data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSPARQLSecurityWebIDSocialRelationshipSPARQLASKExample">Constrain Resource Access Using Social Relationship Semantics and WebID?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSBriefcaseCreateGroup">Create user groups in ODS-Briefcase?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeature">Create Linked Data Resources with RDF content formatted as ...</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeatureNTriples">... N-Triples?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeatureTTL">... Turtle?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeatureRDFXML">... RDF/XML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeatureRDFA">... RDFa?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefBriefcase">Use SPARQL to Query My Resources and Collections using the SIOC Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRefExampleBriefcase">Use SPARQL to Query My Resources and Collections using the FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRefExampleBriefcase">Use SPARQL to Query My Resources and Collections using the SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRefExampleBriefcase">Use SPARQL to Query My Resources and Collections using the Atom Ontology</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseFAQ">Briefcase FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseGettingStarted">Getting Started with Briefcase</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Briefcase Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsResourceBriefcase">Briefcase Manage Resources Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsBriefcaseOAuthD">Briefcase OAuth Authentication Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOAuthTestToolExampleBriefcase">Briefcase OAuth REST API Tutorial with the Virtuoso OAuth Testing Tool</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcaseProgrammersGuide">Briefcase&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryBriefcase">CategoryBriefcase</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsBriefcase">CategoryOdsBriefcase</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>