<docbook><section><title>OdsBookmark</title><para> </para>
<title>ODS Bookmark Manager</title>ODS Bookmark Manager
<para>ODS Bookmark manager is a web-based application that stores your bookmarks on-line for quick access and sharing with other ODS members.</para>
<para>ODS Bookmark Manager is integrated in the ODS framework which allows you to aggregate content from other ODS applications as well as external links from a variety of web sites on the Internet as well as any other important information you want to save.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Presentation &amp; Content</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Bookmark Manager Navbar - Easy to use navigation toolbar for quickly adding, importing &amp; exporting, adding new folders &amp; smartfolders, tag, move, rename, edit and remove </listitem>
<listitem>Add, edit, sort and delete items using intuitive 2-panel interface allow you to name, tag and describe any of your linked content including: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Web Sites &amp; other web bookmarks </listitem>
<listitem>blogrolls </listitem>
<listitem>Linkblogs </listitem>
<listitem>torrents </listitem>
<listitem>RSS feeds </listitem>
<listitem>and more...
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Bookmark News and Bookmark Feeds - Any bookmark folder can be turned into a feed in a plethora of formats.
 Link news can be shown for each folder; using RSS feeds you can monitor what bookmarks have been added to certain folders or to the whole installation.
 Formats include RSS, Atom, RDF, OPML, &amp; OCS).
</listitem>
<listitem>Bookmark Import and Bookmark Export - Import your saved bookmarks from Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla/Netscape, and Opera.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Organize</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Folders and Sub-folders - ODS Bookmark manager stores all your links in an easy to use folder tree.
 You can create an unlimited number of folders and sub-folders to hold information and organize it in anyway you want.
</listitem>
<listitem>Smart Folders - automatically maintained aliases to recently visited, recently added, and tagged bookmarks </listitem>
<listitem>Bookmarks by Tag - Use a list of tags to organize (categorize) and access your bookmarks.
 Tags provides a way to categorize your bookmarks.
 You can decide what tags you want to add to assist in organizing in your bookmarks.
 You can tag you websites with News, Weather, Stocks, Local or any tag you like.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Search</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Powerful full-text search engine allows you to find information base on comma delimited keywords, expressions or tags with options to modify the expression to text, XQuery or XPath </listitem>
<listitem>Filter searches by URL location or name and display in ascending or descending order.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Web browser functionality</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Bookmarklet - Add a shortcut to your web browser to quickly bookmark a web site, blog or feed.
</listitem>
<listitem>Fetch websites, blogs, feed URLs from any configured browser and any URI Application/program, document and folder shortcuts</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Stored Bookmark Metadata</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Bookmark name and description </listitem>
<listitem>Folders including folder name and parent folder </listitem>
<listitem>Tags </listitem>
<listitem>Times of: addition to bookmark manger, last modification to bookmark</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Learn More</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="BookmarkManagerFAQ">Bookmark Manager FAQ</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>