<docbook><section><title>ODSControllerJSPApiLogin</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODS Controller for JSP Api Login</bridgehead>
<para>Note: you should have the users.jsp and users_dsn.jsp (created after installation) file physically located on your machine.</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>The implementation uses Java version 1.5 (version 5), so you should run the corresponding Virtuoso executive.
 You need also to have installed Tomcat version 5.5.x.
</listitem>
<listitem>The page name is &#39;users.jsp&#39;.
</listitem>
<listitem>The endpoint URL is http://[cname]:[port]/jsp/users/users.jsp.
</listitem>
<listitem>Configuration <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Start Virtuoso executive </listitem>
<listitem>Install Tomcat </listitem>
<listitem>Copy file &#39;virtjdbc3.jar&#39; into &#39;[Tomcat installation folder]/common/lib&#39; </listitem>
<listitem>Create file with name &#39;users#jsp.xml&#39; in &#39;[Tomcat installation folder]/conf/Catalina/[cname]/&#39; with content: <programlisting>&lt;!--
  Context configuration file for the ODS-Users Web Application
--&gt;
&lt;Context docBase=&quot;[Enter here the physical location to the users.jsp file]&quot;
         privileged=&quot;true&quot;
         antiResourceLocking=&quot;false&quot;
         antiJARLocking=&quot;false&quot;&gt;
&lt;/Context&gt;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Start Tomcat </listitem>
<listitem>Build and install the conductor_dav.vad package </listitem>
<listitem>Setting Virtual Directory: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to http://[cname]:[port]/conductor </listitem>
<listitem>Login as dba user.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to &quot;<ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> &amp; HTTP&quot;-&gt;&quot;HTTP Hosts &amp; Directories&quot; tab.
</listitem>
<listitem>If directory link &#39;/jsp/users&#39; exists update it with properties described below or click the &quot;New Directory&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Type&quot; radio-box and select from the drop-down list the value &quot;Proxy server&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click &quot;Next&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Virtual directory path&quot; enter the value: /jsp/users </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Proxy to&quot; enter the value: http://[Tomcat Host]:[Tomcat Port]/users/jsp </listitem>
<listitem>For &quot;VSP User&quot; select from the drop-down list: dba </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Save changes&quot; button.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>After VAD installing new page is created in folder &#39;/DAV/VAD/wa/users&#39; - &#39;users_dsn.jsp&#39;.
 This page contains connection information - cname, user, password.
</listitem>
<listitem>Files &#39;users.jsp&#39; and &#39;users_dsn.jsp&#39; must downloaded into local file system.
</listitem>
<listitem>If some database parameters are changed after installation file &#39;users_dsn.jsp&#39; must be updated.
 Go to your physical location of the &#39;users_dsn.jsp&#39; file and set the correct values for the connection to the database: <programlisting>&lt;%
  String $_dsn = &quot;jdbc:virtuoso://[cname]:[SQL Server port]&quot;;
  String $_user = &quot;dba&quot;;
  String $_pass = &quot;dba&quot;;
%&gt;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Install the ods <emphasis>framework_dav.vad package.
</emphasis></listitem>
<listitem>Go to http://[cname]:[port]/jsp/users/users.jsp.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryJSP">CategoryJSP</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>