<docbook><section><title>OdsCommunityFAQ</title><para> </para>
<title>ODS Community FAQ</title>ODS Community FAQ
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What is ODS Community?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Community is a framework which allows you to create a personalized or branded web site.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How many community web sites can I host?</bridgehead>
<para>Unlimited.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I customize my web site?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Community sites can be customized with templates and by choosing from a list of available ODS applications you want hosted on your web site.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I add or edit a template?</bridgehead>
<para> You can choose from a list of default templates or customize one of your  own.
 On the Community tab bar select the &quot;Settings&quot; link at the top right  just below the login and then click the &quot;Templates&quot; link under the  &quot;Community Settings&quot; menu.
 In the form provided, you can customize the  current template or pick from the list of predefined templates under the  &quot;Pick New&quot; tab.
 Under &quot;Pick New&quot; select from the list and then click &quot;Use  Selected Template&quot; to save your changes.
 If you customize the existing  template, you have the option to edit both the template and style sheet.
 Once you are satisfied, just click the &quot;Save Change&quot; button to commit your  template.
 Templates chosen will updated as soon as you commit your  changes.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I add applications to my community?</bridgehead>
<para> Under the Community, select the &quot;Settings&quot; links at the top right just  below the login and then click the &quot;Applications&quot; link under the  &quot;Community Settings&quot; menu.
 Pick from the list of &quot;Owned&quot; Applications  using the double right arrow button to move under the list of &quot;Community&quot;  Applications, then click the &quot;Save&quot; button to commit your changes.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I add members to my community?</bridgehead>
<para>You can invite members by selecting the Invite Tab and sending an Invite email or by selecting the &quot;ODS&quot; tab in the Community tab bar.
 Under ODS click the &quot;Setting&quot; link in the top right corner of the page.
 Under Settings, then select the &quot;Applications&quot; Link from the options listed.
Under Applications select the &quot;Members&quot; link on the row that contains your community and invite or select a user from the list to add to your community membership.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I search my community?</bridgehead>
<para>On the Community tab bar select the &quot;Search Community Users&quot; link at the top right just below the login.
 Search community users by First Name, Last Name Keywords, Tags or location.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I view new members profiles?</bridgehead>
<para>Under the members or new members, box on the left click any members link.
The link will bring you to the members profile page, which includes their contact information, location map, and list of their friends.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryCommunity">CategoryCommunity</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>