<docbook><section><title>OdsCalendarFAQ</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Calendar FAQ</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What is ODS Calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>ODS Calendar is a feature-rich manager in which to coordinate your events, tasks, and notes.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Why should I set up a calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>A calendar is a cool way to share information with the public, to collect important information for future meetings, to save birthday dates of friends, and more.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How is my calendar organized?</bridgehead>
<para>Calendar offers option to add events from every page of its UI.
 The events, tasks, and notes can be viewed on a separate tab for each type.
 Also, views of Day, Week, and Month are offered, each defaulting to the current.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What are events?</bridgehead>
<para>An Event is an activity to take place in a certain period of time.
This could be in the past, present, or future.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What are tasks?</bridgehead>
<para>A task is a special activity which is distinguished by having Priority, Status, and Percent Complete.
 As with events, a task can be assigned a specific period of time for duration.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What are notes?</bridgehead>
<para>A note is a simple text description you can create.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Does one have to register with ODS Calendar to view my calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>No.
 Your calendar can be viewed by any internet user.
 They do not have to register with ODS to view your calendar.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How do I go about creating a event in ODS Calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>You can create an event from the link &quot;New Event&quot; shown at the left vertical navigation top-left, or you can click to the &quot;Events&quot; tab and click the &quot;New Event&quot; button.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Can I personalize my calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes, you can personalize your calendar from &quot;Preferences&quot; link.
 Two tabs are offered for navigation: &quot;General&quot; and &quot;Calendar&quot;.
 In the &quot;Calendar&quot; tab you can choose default view, week start-day, time and date format, timezone, etc.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I upstream my Calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>ODSCalendar supports Atom based upstreaming.
 Any Calendar instance can be configured to escalate any changes to one or several remoted ODS Calendar instances.</para>
<para> Upstreaming can be configured from Preferences-&gt;Upstreams.
 For more details see <ulink url="ODSCalendarAtomUpstreaming">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Does Calendar support SyncML synchronization?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 ODS Calendar supports synchronization to DAV <ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink> folder and back.
 See <ulink url="OdsCalendarSyncML">this</ulink> example scenario.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I Import iCalendar files?</bridgehead>
<para>You can import iCalendar files using the Calendar Import feature.
 More information and sample scenario you can fin <ulink url="OdsCalendarImport">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can Subscribe to URL accessible iCalendar files?</bridgehead>
<para>You can subscribe to URL accessible iCalendar files using the iCalendar Subscription feature.
 More details and sample scenario you can find <ulink url="OdsCalendarSubscr">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What is the url of My iCalendar if I want to use it for subscription purposes?</bridgehead>
<para>The URL can be found in the header info as:</para>
<programlisting>&lt;link rel=&quot;alternate&quot; type=&quot;text/calendar&quot; title=&quot;[here goes the name of the iCalendar&quot; href=&quot;http://[host]:[post]/dataspace/[odsuser]/calendar/[iCalendar instance name]/gems/calendar.ics&quot; /&gt;
</programlisting><para> So for ex.
 user demo has this url for subscription:</para>
<programlisting>http://demo.openlinksw.com/dataspace/demo/calendar/mycalendar/gems/calendar.ics
</programlisting><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I Publish my calendar items to iCalendar format for exchange with 3rd party iCalendar compliant applications?</bridgehead>
<para>You can publish calendar items to iCalendar format using the iCalendar Publications feature.
 More details and sample scenario you can find <ulink url="OdsCalendarPublish">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Can I Share my Calendar?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 ODS Calendar offers sharing feature within the ODS registered users.
 For more information and sample scenario see <ulink url="OdsCalendarShare">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Can I Export my Calendar Tasks and Events?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 ODS Calendar offers export feature within the ODS registered users.
 For more information and sample scenario see <ulink url="OdsCalendarExport">here</ulink>.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What Calendar Ubiquity Commands are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>A full list and examples of Calendar ubiquity commands you can find <ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityCalendar">here</ulink>.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink>  <ulink url="CategoryCalendar">CategoryCalendar</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsCalendar">CategoryOdsCalendar</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>