<docbook><section><title>OdsDiscussionsFAQ</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ODS Discussions FAQ</bridgehead>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> General</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> What is ODS Discussions?</bridgehead>
<para>The ODS Discussions Data Space is a Web-based Newsgroups Aggregator and Reader.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How do I add newsgroups to ODS Discussions?</bridgehead>
<para>Newsgroups can be added through the Conductor, or through the Conversation Integration feature of any ODS Application.</para>
<para>The following ODS Applications support ODS-Newsgroup enable feature:</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS-Weblog</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to your Weblog instance-&gt;Settings-&gt;Preferences-&gt;Site Access-&gt;Conversation </listitem>
<listitem>check the check-boxes with labels &quot;Enable conversation on this blog&quot; and &quot;Initialize the news group with existing posts&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>Go to &quot;New Post&quot; and send 1 post </listitem>
<listitem>You may also want for the sent post to add comment(s) </listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;Discussion&quot; tab from the Main ODS Navigation Bar.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result there will be shown a new created Weblog Newsgroup, which will contain the post(s) and comment(s) you have sent.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS-Wiki</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to your Weblog instance-&gt;Cluster Settings </listitem>
<listitem>For the section &quot;Conversation (NNTP integration)&quot; click the &quot;Turn On&quot; button and then click &quot;Save changes&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>Create a wiki article and click the &quot;Conversation&quot; link </listitem>
<listitem>You may wish to send comments from the shown post form </listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;Discussion&quot; tab from the Main ODS Navigation Bar.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result there will be shown a new created Wiki Newsgroup, which will contain the new created article as post, and its post(s) comment(s) that you have sent.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS-Feeds Manager</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to your Feed Manager instance and subscribe for several feeds.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to Preferences-&gt;Conversation </listitem>
<listitem>Check the check-boxes with labels &quot;Enable conversation on this instance&quot; and &quot;Initialize the news group with existing posts&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to tab &quot;Read&quot;-&gt;&quot;Feeds&quot; and from the 2nd pane with the list of feed&#39;s posts select a post by clicking its &quot;Headline&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result the content of the post will be shown in the 3td pane and also a new link &quot;Conversation&quot; will be shown.
</listitem>
<listitem>You may want to post comments to the post using the &quot;Conversation&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;Discussion&quot; tab from the Main ODS Navigation Bar.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result there will be shown a new created Feeds Newsgroup, which will contain the feed&#39;s posts and its comment(s) that you have sent.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">ODS-Webmail</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to your Webmail instance-&gt;Preferences </listitem>
<listitem>For the &quot;Conversation&quot; section check the check-box with label &quot;Enable conversation on this instance&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>In order to view your webmail posts as posts in Discussion, you should have for the posts not-empty value for DCC: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Click the button &quot;Write Message&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form enter values for the fields: &quot;To&quot;, &quot;Subject&quot; and &quot;Message&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Add DCC&quot; link and enter a valid e-mail address.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;send message&quot; or the button &quot;save draft&quot;.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;Discussion&quot; tab from the Main ODS Navigation Bar.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result there will be shown a new created Webmail Newsgroup, which will contain the posts with &quot;DCC&quot; value.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">Using Conductor</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Make sure that the &quot;<ulink url="NewsServerPort">NewsServerPort</ulink>&quot; parameter is enabled in your ini file: <programlisting>      ...
      [HTTPServer]
      ...
      NewsServerPort              = 1235
      ... 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Go to Conductor UI, for example: <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/conductor">http://localhost:8890/conductor</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Login as dba user </listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;NNTP&quot; tab from the main Conductor Navigation Bar </listitem>
<listitem>Go to &quot;News Servers&quot;-&gt;&quot;NNTP Servers&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form add a NNTP Server.
</listitem>
<listitem>Now click the new added link in the &quot;Server Address&quot; column </listitem>
<listitem>You may wish to subscribe to a list of newsgroups available on this server </listitem>
<listitem>Go to the &quot;Discussion&quot; tab from the Main ODS Navigation Bar.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result there will be shown the newsgroups from the NNTP Server you have subscribed for.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h5">Using Conversation Integration within the ODS Applications</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>For created <emphasis>Weblog</emphasis> instance, go to its home page -&gt; Settings -&gt; Site Access -&gt; Conversation and tick the check-boxes labeled &quot;Enable conversation on this blog&quot; and &quot;Initialize the news group with existing posts&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>For created <emphasis>Wiki</emphasis> instance, go to its home page -&gt; Cluster Settings and in the section &quot;Conversation (NNTP integration)&quot; click the button &quot;Turn On&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>For created <emphasis>Feeds</emphasis> instance, go to its home page -&gt; Preferences -&gt; Conversation and tick the check-boxes labeled &quot;Enable conversation on this blog&quot; and &quot;Initialize the news group with existing posts&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>For created <emphasis>Webmail</emphasis> instance, go to its home page -&gt; Preferences  -&gt; Conversation and tick the check-box labeled &quot;Enable conversation on this instance&quot;.
 In order for this feature to work properly for ODS Webmail, you should have mail messages with &quot;DCC&quot; values defined.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I View the Newsgroup messages?</bridgehead>
<para>Click the Discussion tab on the ODS Navigation bar.
 The list of all available Newsgroups will be shown as a result, from which messages can be viewed in two ways:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>List Mode: this view shows the messages for a current newsgroup in a plain list in the order they have been created.
</listitem>
<listitem>Thread Mode: this view shows the messages for a current newsgroup in a tree list in the order they have been created.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How is Discussion organized?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>The main page of the application shows the list of available newsgroups either subscribed for from the Conductor UI, or from the ODS-applications Weblog, Wiki, Feed Manager or Webmail.
</listitem>
<listitem>there are 2 modes offered: simple list and thread view.
 This is both for newsgroups and for posts.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Can I add tag(s) to post(s)?</bridgehead>
<para>   Yes.
 You can add tags to newsgroups by clicking the &quot;tags(n)&quot; link, which is shown for every newsgroup.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Can I personalize Discussions?</bridgehead>
<para>   In order to personalize your Discussion list, you should have admin privilidjes:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Login at Discussions as user dba </listitem>
<listitem>Go to Settings.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result the shown form divides the newsgroups in 2 lists, depending either they are ODs-Newsgroup or NNTP Newsgroup from Conductor.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I view a retrieved newsgroup article?</bridgehead>
<para>If the newsgroup messages are being viewed in list mode, then for each message there is a &quot;Read&quot; link, which shows the content of the post when clicked.
 If the messages are being viewed in thread mode, then the subject of each post is a link, which reveals the content of the post when clicked.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I create RSS for a Newsgroup?</bridgehead>
<para>In the Newsgroups list shown on the Discussions Home page, for each Newsgroup there is an &quot;RSS&quot; link.
 Click it in order to get an RSS feed for a particular Newsgroup.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How can I organize My RSS Feeds?</bridgehead>
<para>The RSS Feeds list can be viewed from the Discussion Navigation bar -&gt; My RSS.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How do I post a message?</bridgehead>
<para>A new message can be posted either by clicking the &quot;Post&quot; tab on the Discussions Navigation bar, or by clicking the &quot;Reply to this article&quot; link found below the content of an existing message.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How do I attach a file to a post?</bridgehead>
<para>In the post message form, click the &quot;[Attach files]&quot; link.
 You will be offered a choice to upload from your local file system or from DAV.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What Discussion ubiquity commands are supported?</bridgehead>
<para>A full list and examples of Discussion ubiquity commands you can find <ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityDiscussion">here</ulink>.</para>
<para><ulink url="CategoryFAQ">CategoryFAQ</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDiscussions">CategoryDiscussions</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsDiscussions">CategoryOdsDiscussions</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>