<docbook><section><title>OdsGData</title><para>  </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ODS GData Service</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso&#39;s support for the <ulink url="GData">GData</ulink> protocol is exposed at a higher application user lever via the ODS suite of applications.
 This isn&#39;t the only entry point for using GData with Virtuoso; it is simply the interface level closest to the typical user.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Search Service Endpoints</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="GData">GData</ulink> services, like all Web services, are exposed via invocation endpoints.
 The ODS endpoints formats are as follows:</para>
<programlisting>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/[&lt;app-realm&gt;[,&lt;app-realm&gt;]]/[-/&lt;tag-expression&gt;]?q=&lt;text-query&gt;&amp;alt=&lt;output-format&gt;
</programlisting><para> </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>app-realm</emphasis>: a comma-separated list of application names for searching, for example &#39;weblog&#39;, &#39;wiki&#39; etc.
 This specifies the application type but does not scope the search to any single wiki or blog.
 If not specified the search will be over all ODS applications and accounts.
 The following values are supported:  &#39;feeds&#39;, &#39;weblog&#39;, &#39;wiki&#39;, &#39;briefcase&#39;, &#39;mail&#39;, &#39;bookmark&#39;, &#39;photos&#39;, &#39;community&#39; and &#39;news&#39;.

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData?q=virtuoso</entry><entry>will search across ODS for content matching pattern: &#39;virtuoso&#39; </entry></row>
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/weblog?q=virtuoso</entry><entry>will search weblog data space for content matching pattern: &#39;virtuoso&#39; </entry></row>
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/weblog,feeds?q=virtuoso</entry><entry>will search weblog and feed subscriptions data spaces content matching pattern:  &#39;virtuoso.&#39;</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
  </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>tag-expression</emphasis>: tags connected with &#39;|&#39; (OR) or &#39;/&#39; (AND) 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/-/tag1/tag2</entry><entry>will search all ODS application data having tags &#39;tag1&#39; and &#39;tag2&#39;</entry></row>
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/-/tag1|tag2</entry><entry>will search all ODS application data having tags &#39;tag1&#39; or &#39;tag2&#39;</entry></row>
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/weblog/-/tag1|tag2</entry><entry>will search weblog posts having tags &#39;tag1&#39; or &#39;tag2&#39;</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
  </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>text-query</emphasis>: a string containing a words to be matched in the application&#39;s searchable content </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>output-format</emphasis>: &#39;atom&#39; or &#39;rss&#39;, which kind of feed format to be returned.
 if not given, ATOM is the default.

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/weblog?q=virtuoso&amp;alt=rss</entry><entry>will return blog posts containing the word &#39;virtuoso&#39; in the RSS 2.0 feed format.</entry></row>
<row><entry>http://host:port/dataspaces/GData/weblog?q=virtuoso</entry><entry>will return blog posts containing the word &#39;virtuoso&#39;  in the  Atom 1.0 feed format.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryMarketing">CategoryMarketing</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryGlossary">CategoryGlossary</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>