<docbook><section><title>OdsGallery</title><para>  </para>
<title>ODS Gallery</title>ODS Gallery
<para>ODS-Gallery is a platform for managing and managing Images such that includes: Photos, Diagrams, Clippings and other image based content.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Presentation &amp; Content</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Multiple Browsing &amp; Interaction modes - Slideshows and Thumbnail view of images.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multiple Upload Options - you can upload single photo or multiple photos via your browser.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multiple Upload Sources - you can upload images from your local Filesystem of the ODS Briefcase (<ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>).
</listitem>
<listitem>Image Metadata Exposure - all Image Metadata is automatically extracted at upload time, this includes the entire collection of EXIF properties from Digital Camera photos.
</listitem>
<listitem>Viewers Commenting - includes in-built commenting functionality that transparently integrates with Virtuoso&#39;s NNTP Server (ODS-Discussion module).
</listitem>
<listitem>Email Photos - supports email attachments by Reference since you can send Image URIs instead of actually attaching physical file.
</listitem>
<listitem>Have your friends subscribe to your Gallery - enables image gallery syndication using formats such as Atom, RSS 2.0, RDF, XBEL or mRSS.
</listitem>
<listitem>Add Albums to organize your photos - you can organize collections of images into albums (e.g., typical family photo albums).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Security</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Album Viewing - you image collections can be public, private, or simply available to select access control lists.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSGalleryProgrammersGuideWebServices">Services</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSGalleryProgrammersGuideWebServices">Use SOAP and WSDL Services?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityGallery">Use the Gallery Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="SIOCRefGallery">Use SPARQL to Query My Gallery using the SIOC Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRefExampleGallery">Use SPARQL to Query My Gallery using the Atom Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRefExampleGallery">Use SPARQL to Query My Gallery using the SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRefExampleGallery">Use SPARQL to Query My Gallery using the FOAF Ontology</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGalleryFAQ">Gallery FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGalleryGettingStarted">Getting Started with Gallery</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Gallery Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsAlbumGallery">Gallery Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsGalleryOAuthD">Gallery OAuth Authentication Tutorial</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">See also</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAtomOWLRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Atom OWL Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSKOSRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and SKOS Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSFOAFRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and FOAF Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAnnoteaRef">Query ODS Data Spaces using SPARQL and Annotea Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SPARQL Samples</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/NorthWindREF">Northwind SPARQL Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefTutorial">Query Virtuoso Tutorials using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/SIOCRefDocs">Query Virtuoso Documentation using SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/WordPressSIOCRef">WordPress SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/MediaWikiSIOCRef">MedaWiki SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/PHPBB3SIOCRef">PHPBB SIOC Reference</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryGallery">CategoryGallery</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsGallery">CategoryOdsGallery</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>