<docbook><section><title>ODSIndex</title><title> OpenLink Data Spaces</title> OpenLink Data Spaces
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> What are Data Spaces?</bridgehead>
<para>A named structured data cluster within a distributed data network where each item of data (each &quot;datum&quot;) has a unique identifier.
 Fundamental characteristics of data spaces include:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Each Data Item is a Data Object endowed with a unique HTTP-based Identifier </listitem>
<listitem>Data Object Identity is distinct from its Content, Structure, and Location (Address) </listitem>
<listitem>Data Object Representation is delivered via structured content constrained by a Schema (in this case the Entity-Attribute-Value model) </listitem>
<listitem>Creation, Update, and Deletion privileges are controlled by the Data Space owner.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>In relation to the Web, data spaces provide clustered points of access to data object; basically, they provide structured data access partitioning just as &#39;machine names&#39; provide name oriented partitioning for DNS and &#39;table names&#39; the same for database systems.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Why are Data Spaces important?</bridgehead>
<para>Data Spaces provide a powerful conceptual model based virtualization layer that sits atop heterogeneous data sources.
 They enable the creation, publication, and general management of structured data items (data objects) from a pool of disparate data sources.
 Examples include:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Structured profiles for individuals or organizations (and other groups) exposing rich metadata for: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Online Accounts </listitem>
<listitem>Favorite Things </listitem>
<listitem>Likes and Dislikes </listitem>
<listitem>Areas of Interest </listitem>
<listitem>Product &amp; Service Wish-Lists </listitem>
<listitem>Product &amp; Service Offer-Lists </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Shared application spaces such as: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>file sharing </listitem>
<listitem>calendars </listitem>
<listitem>bookmarks </listitem>
<listitem>feed subscriptions </listitem>
<listitem>blogs </listitem>
<listitem>wikis </listitem>
<listitem>discussions &amp; conversations </listitem>
<listitem>instant messaging </listitem>
<listitem>publish (upstream) &amp; subscribe (downstream) model data exchange</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> What is OpenLink Data Spaces?</bridgehead>
 ODS is an industry standards-compliant data space platform that includes a broad collection of distributed collaborative applications covering: blogs, wikis, shared bookmarks, file management, calendaring, email, photo galleries, discussion forums, polls, and more.<para>Every item of data within an ODS instance is endowed with a de-referenceable URI.
 This enables any HTTP-compatible client to obtain a negotiated representation of the description of any ODS data item.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Challenges Alleviated via ODS</bridgehead>
<para>User content across the Web, both Intranet and Extranet, is growing exponentially, while time, attention, and comprehension of the resulting data streams is at best static, and typically shrinking.
 Compounding the problem is the fact that the exponential growth of user generated data has resulted in a proliferation of data silos, due to the popularity of Web 2.0 solution patterns.</para>
<para>All of this is happening at a time when individuals and organizations alike are seeking to do more with less, by exploiting the agility-producing powers of &quot;Open Data Access&quot; across enterprise and/or Web domains.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Product Features</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Query Service Support</bridgehead>
<para>ODS supports a number of Query Services:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGData">GData</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>OpenSearch </listitem>
<listitem>XQuery/XPath over HTTP </listitem>
<listitem>Full Text Search over HTTP </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VOSSPARQL">SPARQL</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Publishing Protocol Support</bridgehead>
<para>ODS supports the following publishing protocols:</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGData">GData</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Atom 1.0 </listitem>
<listitem>Moveable Type </listitem>
<listitem>MetaWeblog </listitem>
<listitem>Blogger</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFrameworkProgrammersGuideWebServices">SOAP &amp; REST APIs</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Application Components</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsFramework">ODS-Framework</ulink> -- An <ulink url="ODSOpenID">OpenID</ulink>- and <ulink url="ODSYadis">Yadis</ulink>-compliant Framework for building Distributed Collaborative Applications that are equipped with Single-Sign-On (SSO) functionality and auto-generated RDF Data Spaces </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAddressbook">ODS-Addressbook</ulink> -- An Address Book Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBookmarkManager">ODS-Bookmark-Manager</ulink> -- A Shared Bookmark Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBriefcase">ODS-Briefcase</ulink> -- A <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>-based Unified Storage Solution that incorporates automated extraction and management of metadata </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsCalendar">ODS-Calendar</ulink> -- A Calendar manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsCommunity">ODS-Community</ulink> -- Group/Community Mode service for all of the ODS-* applications </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsDiscussions">ODS-Discussions</ulink> -- Web-based Newsgroups Aggregator and Reader.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdseCRM">ODS-eCRM</ulink> -- Web-based Customer Relationship Manager.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsFeedManager">ODS-Feed-Manager</ulink> -- An RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0, Atom, OPML, and OCS Feed Aggregator </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsGallery">ODS-Gallery</ulink> -- Photo &amp; General Media Sharing </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMail">ODS-Mail</ulink> -- A Web-based Email Client </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsPolls">ODS-Polls</ulink> -- Polls Manager </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsBlog">ODS-Weblog</ulink> -- A comprehensive blogging platform supporting all the major publishing protocols (Atom, Moveable Type, Meta Weblog, and Blogger) and includes automatic generation of content-syndication gems in RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0, Atom, SIOC, OPML, OCS, and other formats </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsWiki">ODS-Wiki</ulink> -- A Wiki Platform supporting the Atom Publishing Protocol, Twiki, <ulink url="MediaWiki">MediaWiki</ulink> (Wikimedia), and Creole markup dialects</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">News</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSOpenIDAnnounceText">ODS OpenID and Yadis Release</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSOpenID">ODS OpenID support</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSYadis">ODS Yadis support</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSRDFSinkFolder">ODS RDF Sink folder support</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSProgrammersGuideOpenSocial">OpenSocial API support</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAPlusLinks">ODS &lt;a&gt;++ Links support</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsWebDAVBrowse">WebDAV browse feature for ODS users</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsSPARQLAuth">(ODS) accounts perform SPARUL over SPARQL using the new &quot;/sparql-auth&quot; endpoint</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquity">Virtuoso ODS Ubiquity Commands support</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Getting Started</bridgehead>
<para>ODS is pre-installed as part of the demonstration database (demo.db)  bundled with <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Virtuoso Open-Source Edition.
If you are running the server with the default demo database configuration, simply point your browser to <ulink url="http://localhost:8890/ods">http://localhost:8890/ods</ulink>.
 See <ulink url="OdsConfig">Setting up ODS</ulink> for a simple configuration guide.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Installation Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsConfig">Installing and Configuring ODS</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VirtInstallationEC2">Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How Do I...
</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="GetAPersonalURIIn5MinutesOrLess">Get a Personal URI via ODS in 5 minutes or less!</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSGenerateX509Certificate">Generate an X.509 Certificate hosted WebID?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWebIDIdpProxy">How can I use the WebID Identity Provider Proxy Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWebIDIdP">How can I use the Delegated WebID Verification Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSPARQLSecurityWebIDSPARQLASKExample">Constrain Resource Access To Group Members using SPARQL ASK Query and Web-accessible Linked Data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSPARQLSecurityWebIDSocialRelationshipSPARQLASKExample">Constrain Resource Access Using Social Relationship Semantics and WebID?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSManageWebIDFeatures">Use WebID Protocol?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtODSPubSubHub">Set up PubSubHub in ODS?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtPubSubHubACL">Set Up PubSubHub to use WebID Protocol- or IP-based control lists?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWebIDACLInstanceSetting">Set up WebID ACL for ODS Dataspace Instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSManageOAuthFeatures">Use the OAuth supported features?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSManageOAuthWG">Use the OAuth-Simple Web Discovery feature?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSManageRESTFeatures">Use the REST supported features?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTaggingManagement">Create &amp; Share Automatic Content Tagging Rules</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAccessPoints">Use ODS Application Endpoints (URL Redirection)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsSetLoginAuthenticaionKeys">Set up Login Authentication Keys?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtMOATSettings">Give My Data Space Content Tags Meaning via MOAT Ontology</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSRDFSinkFolder">Get Data into Virtuoso Quad Store via the ODS-Briefcase&#39;s special RDF Sink Folder</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSAppManageResources">Manage my resources, bookmarks, contacts, calendar events and tasks?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquity">Use the Virtuoso ODS Ubiquity Commands?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsAPlusLinks">Set &lt;a&gt;++ links?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsOpenIDRegister">Register ODS User with OpenID2?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtWebDAVInsertQuadStore">Use WebDAV extractor to insert triples via SPARUL into the Quad Store</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSPARQLRef">Learn About Virtuoso&#39;s SPARQL Query Language Support, By Example?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsFacebookIntegration">Manage Facebook integration?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSemanticPingback">Use the Semantic Pingback?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSWATOTutorial">Perform the Distributed Social Network use case specified by SWATO level 0?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsSPARQLAuth">Perform SPARUL over SPARQL using the &quot;/sparql-auth&quot; endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSyncMLAndroidToVirtuoso">Synchronize my events, tasks and contacts using SyncML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoAppODSUsers">Administrate ODS User Profile using Third Party Languages?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSPARQLQuerying">Use SPARQL to Query?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Intranet Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsGettingStarted">General Intranet Quick Start Guides</ulink>  by functionality realm</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Third-Party Platform Integration</bridgehead>
 <bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Installation Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsIntegrationMediaWiki">MediaWiki</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsIntegrationWordPress">WordPress</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsIntegrationphpBB">phpBB</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsIntegrationDrupal">Drupal</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsIntegrationFacebook">Facebook - Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Live Demonstrations</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/mediawiki/">MediaWiki Demo Instance</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/wp/">WordPress Demo Instance</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/phpBB3">phpBB3 Demo Instance</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/drupal">Drupal Demo Instance</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="DataSpaceFAQ">Data Space FAQ</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsFAQ">ODS FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODS Tutorials</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSProfileManagerGuide">ODS-Profile Manger Usage Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSODSSparqlSamples">ODS SIOC Query Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorials">ODS Ubiquity Commands Tutorials</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOdsUbiquityTutorialsOAuth">OAuth Ubiquity Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VirtOAuthSPARQL">SPARQL OAuth Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VirtAuthFOAFSSLACL">WebID Protocol &amp; SPARQL Endpoint ACLs Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsOpenIDRegister">Register ODS User with OpenID2 Tutorial</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSWATOTutorial">SWATO Tutorial</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/presentations/SPARQL_Tutorials/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_1/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_1.html">SPARQL Tutorials Part 1: Using SIOC to Model the Linked Data Web</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/presentations/SPARQL_Tutorials/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_2/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_2.html">SPARQL Tutorials Part 2: SPARQL Extensions in the Virtuoso Universal Server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/presentations/SPARQL_Tutorials/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_3/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_3.html">SPARQL Tutorials Part 3: SPARQL and Analytics</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/presentations/SPARQL_Tutorials/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_4/SPARQL_Tutorials_Part_4.html">SPARQL Tutorials Part 4: Exploring FOAF-, Atom OWL-, Annotea-, and SKOS-based Data Spaces on the Linked Data Web</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSProgrammersGuide">ODS Programmers&#39; Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC Reference</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VirtuosoOAuthProgrammersGuide">Virtuoso OAuth Programmers&#39; Guide</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Weblogs &amp; Commentary</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/">Virtuoso Technology Blog</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen">Kingsley Idehen&#39;s Blog Data Space</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/weblog/public/search.vspx?blogid=127&amp;q=data%20spaces&amp;type=text&amp;output=html">Kingsley Idehen&#39;s Data Space commentary and articles</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/weblogs/oerling/">Orri Erling&#39;s Weblog Data Space</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Additional Information</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSTipsAndTricksGuide">ODS Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://goo.gl/pdkRI">Understanding Data</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://goo.gl/CBEZY">Understanding Data Objects</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>