<docbook><section><title>OdsMailInstallGuide</title><title> Virtuoso ODS-Mail Installation Guide</title> Virtuoso ODS-Mail Installation Guide
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Requirements</bridgehead>
<para>To make an ODS-Mail Installation you need:</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>ODS Framework vad package: <emphasis><ulink url="https://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">ods_framework_dav.vad</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>ODS-Mail VAD package: <emphasis><ulink url="https://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">ods_webmail_dav.vad</ulink></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Running Virtuoso Server.
 (version 3.5 or higher) </listitem>
<listitem>SMTP Server </listitem>
<listitem>Mail Drop application</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Installation steps</bridgehead>
<emphasis>Step 1</emphasis>: Building VAD package<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>If you have ODS-Mail VAD package, you can jump to Step 2.
</listitem>
<listitem>To build an ODS-Mail VAD package, you need to have a fresh copy of the ODS-Mail sources from CVS repository and Virtuoso environment installed.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the opensource tree, the path to module is: \virtuoso-opensource\appsrc\ODS-WebMail </listitem>
<listitem>After cvs update, go to ODS-Mail directory and run: <programlisting>./make_vad.sh
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>As result should be build ods_webmail_dav.vad and ods_webmail_filesystem.vad packages.
 You can locate them in the same folder \virtuoso-opensource\appsrc\ODS-WebMail.</listitem>
</orderedlist><emphasis>Step 2</emphasis>: Installing the ODS-Mail VAD package<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>If you already have installed the ODS Framework package, you need only to execute either from Conductor Interactive SQL or from ISQL the following line: <programlisting>DB.DBA.VAD_INSTALL(&#39;/&lt;package_path&gt;/ods_webmail_dav.vad&#39;,0);
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>As result, if the installation is successful, should be shown the messages: <programlisting>00000    No errors detected, installation complete.
00000    Now making a final checkpoint.
00000    Final checkpoint is made.
00000    SUCCESS
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist><emphasis>Step 3</emphasis>: Configuration of receiving mail messages<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>To be able to receive mail using your ODS-Mail account, you need to have the following components: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>SMTP server (MS SMTP, Sendmail, Qmail, ...) </listitem>
<listitem>domain name (for example: domain.com) </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Mail Drop program </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>The working schema is: <programlisting>Internet-&gt;SMTP Server(*@domain.com)-&gt;Mail Drop App (via odbc)-&gt;Virtuoso DB message
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>You need to configure a SMTP server to receive messages for your domain name and execute mail_drop application for every incoming mail message to this domain.
 For reference see the steps below.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Installation instructions for UNIX</bridgehead>
<para>See details <ulink url="OdsMailInstallGuideUnix">here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Installation Steps for Windows</bridgehead>
<para>See details <ulink url="OdsMailInstallGuideWindows">here</ulink>.</para>
<emphasis>Step 4</emphasis>: Configuring ODS-Mail application<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to http://[host]:[port]/ods </listitem>
<listitem>Login as dav user (default password is dav) </listitem>
<listitem>Go to Site Settings-&gt;Server Settings and configure domain names list with available domain for user registrations.
</listitem>
<listitem>Check if in the list &quot;Existing Hosted Mail Domains&quot; there is your domain, for ex.
 domain.com.
 If not, add it.
</listitem>
<listitem>Logout as user dav.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> <emphasis>Step 5</emphasis>: ODS-Mail UI </para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to http://[host]:[port]/ods and register a new user.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to ODS-Mail and create new instance.
 In the create instance page you need to provide domain from the list of available domains for your email address.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result you will be redirected to your ODS-Mail Inbox folder.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Related</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsMail">ODS-Mail</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailFiltersGuide">Creating Filters in ODS-Mail</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSMailWebIDFilterRule">Web ID Filter Rule Example</ulink>; </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailIMAP4FilterRule">Set Filter Rule associated with IMAP4 account Example</ulink>; </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailSpamFilterGuide">Set Spam Filter Example</ulink>; </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailSpamFilterRule">Manage Spam Filter with Addressbook interaction</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailWebIDSMIME">ODS-Mail&#39;s SMIME + WebID Support Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsWebmailProgrammersGuide">ODS-Mail&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailPop3External">Configure an external POP3 account in ODS-Mail</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailIMAP4External">Configure an external IMAP4 account in ODS-Mail</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailIMAP4Thunderbird">Synchronizing Mozilla Thunderbird IMAP4 account store with ODS-Mail IMAP4 mapped instance</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryMail">CategoryMail</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryHowTo">CategoryHowTo</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsMail">CategoryOdsMail</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>