<docbook><section><title>OdsMail</title><title>ODS-Mail</title>ODS-Mail
<para>ODS-Mail is a highly scalable and robust web-based email and collaboration solution designed to support numbers of users whilst delivering the industry&#39;s best performance and availability.
 It reduces the cost of communications by providing remote workers with efficient collaboration tools via a user-friendly web interface.
 It is integrated with <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> <ulink url="DataSpace">Data Spaces</ulink>, and thus includes remote access to files, feeds, calendars, photos, Wikis, and other applications.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Feature Highlights</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Presentation &amp; Content</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Easy to use Preview Pane for navigating folders and reading mail </listitem>
<listitem>Attachments - Attach URIs or  files to your message such as word or other documents to your message.
</listitem>
<listitem>Create professional messages in plain text or HTML format with Mails built-in WYSIWYG editor.
 Mails WYSIWYG editor allows you to compose messages in text or HTML mode and provides the ability to format the font type, size, and color, while modifying the message format and embedding images directly into the body of the e-mail.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Embed Images directly into the body of a message </listitem>
<listitem>Format Messages - bold, italicize, change fonts, background colors, and more </listitem>
<listitem>Text-Only Messages - compose messages without formatting or embedded images </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>CC, BCC and DCC support </listitem>
<listitem>Drafts support </listitem>
<listitem>Import mail messages from any POP-3 based email.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Organize</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Folder Management - with ODS-Mail you can quickly and easily organize new and old messages; and add and delete folders with folder management.
</listitem>
<listitem>Personalize Folders - create, modify, and delete personalized folders quickly and easily </listitem>
<listitem>Organize your email by moving messages into designated folders for easy e-mail management and filtering </listitem>
<listitem>Sort mail by sender, subject, or date received </listitem>
<listitem>Automatically (optional) store sent messages in the Sent folder </listitem>
<listitem>Flag messages for follow up </listitem>
<listitem>Mark messages as read or unread </listitem>
<listitem>Mark messages as &quot;urgent&quot; or &quot;low priority&quot;</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Search</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>ODS-Mail includes a sophisticated built-in search so you can easily find messages in your e-mail account.
 Choose from multiple options to define the search criteria or select multiple folders or limit the search to a select few.
</listitem>
<listitem>Search Multiple Folders - select one or multiple folders quickly and easily to find a specific message(s) relating to a given search </listitem>
<listitem>Display Specific Messages - find all messages relating to a person, company, or subject </listitem>
<listitem>Advanced Search allows you to search attachments and messages for a given date or date range or to whom the email was sent.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Web Browser Functionality</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Browser support includes Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla/Netscape, and Opera.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Stored Feed Manager Metadata</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Emails, folders/sub-folders and attachments </listitem>
<listitem>Tags and email subjects </listitem>
<listitem>Dates, email history, email sender and recipients</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How Do I ...?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsMailInstallGuide">Install ODS-Mail?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailFiltersGuide">Set Filter in ODS-Mail?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailSpamFilterGuide">Set the ODS-Mail Spam Filter?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailPop3External">Set External POP3 Account?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailIMAP4External">Set External IMAP 4 Account?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailIMAP4Thunderbird">Synchronizing Mozilla Thunderbird IMAP 4 account store with ODS-Mail IMAP 4 mapped instance</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailWebIDFilter">Use WebID to filter in-bound Signed Mail?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailWebIDSMIME">Evaluate SMIME + WebID support?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailSendDigitallySignedMsg">Optionally Sending Digitally Signed Messages?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSMailEncrypt">Optionally Sending Encrypted Messages?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailMerge">Mail Merge</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="OdsMailTemplates">Mail Templates</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">FAQs</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsMailFAQ">ODS-Mail FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Quick Start Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsMailGettingStarted">Getting Started with ODS-Mail</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODS-Mail Tutorials</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsMailSpamFilterGuide">ODS-Mail Set Spam Filter Tutorial</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Reference Guides</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsWebmailProgrammersGuide">ODS-Mail&#39;s Programmers Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryMail">CategoryMail</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOdsMail">CategoryOdsMail</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>