<docbook><section><title>ODSRDFSinkFolder</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">ODS RDF Sink Folder</bridgehead>
<para>Virtuoso&#39;s <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> supports a special folder for RDF uploads, named <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis>.</para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>When a new user is created, a new WebDAV folder with name <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis> is created in the user&#39;s home directory; </listitem>
<listitem>The folder has two properties - <emphasis>virt:rdf_graph</emphasis> and <emphasis>virt:rdf_sponger</emphasis>.
 The names of the WebDAV properties are prefixed with <emphasis>virt:</emphasis>.
 The properties of the other DET folders are also prefixed in the same way.
 Properties prefixed with <emphasis>virt:</emphasis> are not shown as resource/collection properties in the ODS Briefcase - they can be seen only in the Conductor.
 Uploaded resources in the <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis> folder don&#39;t have any special properties.
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>The property <emphasis>virt:rdf_graph</emphasis> contains the name of the graph for uploads.
</listitem>
<listitem>The property <emphasis>virt:rdf_sponger</emphasis> points to the upload method.
 If it is <emphasis>on</emphasis>, then the content of every file uploaded to that folder is added to the RDF store using the Sponger method.
 If this value is <emphasis>off</emphasis>, then only files with special mime types are added to the RDF store.
 After the first upload into the folder a new file is created too and it has name based on the RDF Graph Name.
 This file is dynamic and contains all uploaded triplets; </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>There is a procedure for automatic creation of an <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis> folder in each ODS users home directory.
 The ODS Register User page can also be updated so that an <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis> folder will be created for every ODS user.
</listitem>
<listitem>ODS Briefcase UI supports <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis>-like folders (create and update);</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>From the ODS Briefcase UI, a user may see properties for this folder using the &quot;Properties&quot; button at the right of the folder name.
 The opened page shows tab with name &quot;RDF Upload&quot; and 2 fields: </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Graph name</emphasis>, e.g., http://demo.openlinksw.com/DAV/home/demo/rdf_sink </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Sponger</emphasis> (on/off), defaults to on.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The UI is the same as for other DET folders.
 On the &quot;Main&quot; tab &gt; field &quot;Folder Type&quot; contains &quot;RDF Upload Folder&quot;.
 You may set this type for other WebDAV folders and set field values in the &quot;RDF Upload&quot; tab.</para>
<para> <emphasis>Note:</emphasis> In order the rdf_sink folder to work correctly, you need to make sure the <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com/packages/5.0/virtuoso/rdf_mappers_dav.vad">rdf mappers package</ulink> is installed.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Example</bridgehead>
 User demo uploads an rdf file to his <emphasis>rdf_sink</emphasis> folder at http://demo.openlinksw.com/ods : <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Go to demo user Briefcase UI home page </listitem>
<listitem>Upload the RDF file (&#39;TimBLcard.rdf&#39;) to the &quot;rdf_sink&quot; folder.
</listitem>
<listitem>After upload a file with name &quot;http___demo.openlinksw.com_DAV_home_demo_rdf_sink_.RDF&quot; is created.
 When its name link is clicked in the ODS Briefcase UI, the triples are downloaded.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">See Also</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtuosoRDFSinkFolder">Virtuoso RDF Sink Folder</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryVirtuoso">CategoryVirtuoso</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryDAV">CategoryDAV</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryRDF">CategoryRDF</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>