<docbook><section><title>ODSWeblogUpstreaming</title><para>   </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">ODS Weblog Upstreaming</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Using Atom Protocol</bridgehead>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample example</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Suppose that there is user test1 registered on myopenlink.net:8890/ods, and this user has test1-blog-0 weblog instance created there.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Login at <ulink url="http://host:port/ods">http://host:port/ods</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Go to the Weblog tab from the ODS main navigation </listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Create new&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Create and Launch Application&quot; button.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result you will be redirected to the weblog instance home page.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click &quot;New post&quot; link from the Weblog Main navigation.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form enter for title: test upstreaming and for the post body enter: this simple test.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Post&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to Settings-&gt;Upstreams.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form enter: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Hostname&quot;: myopenlink.net </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Port&quot;: 80 </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Endpoint&quot;: /Atom/test1-blog-0 or /GData/test1-blog-0 </listitem>
<listitem>for field &quot;Username&quot;: test1 </listitem>
<listitem>for fields &quot;Password&quot; and &quot;Retype Password&quot;: 1 </listitem>
<listitem>for &quot;API type&quot; choose: Atom </listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the Fetch button for the field &quot;Select Blog&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>As result is found 1 blog with Atom Post URL: <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:80/GData/test1-blog-0">http://myopenlink.net:80/GData/test1-blog-0</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Click the Select button for it.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter for &quot;Start Date&quot;: 2006-12-14 and click its check-box.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter for frequency: 5 </listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Add&quot; button.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to Upstreaming log.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result will be shown the post &quot;test upstreaming&quot; with status &quot;Pending&quot; </listitem>
<listitem>After a while this post will be shown with status &quot;Sent&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net/weblog/test1/">http://myopenlink.net/weblog/test1/</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>As result the post &quot;test upstreaming&quot; will be shown shown at the myopenlink.net test1&#39;s Weblog  weblog instance home page.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryBlog">CategoryBlog</ulink> </para>
</section></docbook>