<docbook><section><title>ODSWikiAtomUpstreaming</title><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Wiki Atom based upstream support</bridgehead>
<para>ODSWiki now supports Atom based upstreaming.
 Any cluster can be configured to escalate any changes to one or several remoted ODS Wiki instances.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>Upstreaming can be configured in Cluster Settings page in Upstreams tab.</para>
<para>The form for adding or changing existing upstream contains following fields:</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> name </entry><entry> name of the upstream - list of upstreams actually a list of such names </entry></row>
<row><entry> URL    </entry><entry> URL of remote ODSWiki Atom endpoint. Usually it is something like =http://{server}[:port]/dataspace/{ownername}/wiki/{clustername}/atom-pub </entry></row>
<row><entry> user  </entry><entry> name of user who has write permissions on the remote ODSWiki instance </entry></row>
<row><entry> password </entry><entry> password of <emphasis>user</emphasis> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Important Notes</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Do not run upstreaming as the dav user lest it risk overwriting unrelated articles.
</listitem>
<listitem>A change that comes about via upstream constitutes a new version number on the page in the destination wiki cluster.
</listitem>
<listitem>The page in the destination cluster may be locally modified between upstreams </listitem>
<listitem>An upstream request will have no effect on pages in the source that have not been modified since the last upstream </listitem>
<listitem>When the version number of a page the source cluster is incremented, upstreams will take effect </listitem>
<listitem>Local modifications in the destination cluster will be overwritten by subsequent changes in the source (but not until the source is changed).
</listitem>
<listitem>If you see &quot;HTTP/401 Precondition Failed&quot; this means you need the same version of the ODS-Wiki VAD package on both the source and destination instances; this is a new check to ensure attachments may be safely transferred in the Atom stream.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Simple example:</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Note: At myopenlink.net:8890/ods : <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>There is an user test1 with pwd 1 registered.
</listitem>
<listitem>User test1 is an owner of a test1Wiki wiki instance.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Install ODS and Wiki packages.
</listitem>
<listitem>Login at <ulink url="http://host:port/ods">http://host:port/ods</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Go to Wiki from the ODS main left vertical navigation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Create New&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the shown form click the &quot;Create and Launch application&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result is shown the WelcomeVisitors wiki home page.
 From the horizontal navigation click the &quot;Cluster Settings&quot; link.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Upstreams&quot; tab.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter in the shown form: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>For field &quot;Name:&quot; My upstream </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;URL:&quot; <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;User:&quot; test1 </listitem>
<listitem>For field &quot;Password:&quot; 1 </listitem>
<listitem>Check the check-box for &quot;Make full cluster upstream first&quot;.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Add/Update Upstream&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Back to the Topic&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>In the &quot;Go&quot; field enter TestStream and click enter.
</listitem>
<listitem>Enter for the article&#39;s body: simple text.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the button &quot;Save and release lock&quot;.
</listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Upstream&quot; now link shown under the article.
</listitem>
<listitem>Go to <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net/test1/wiki/2/test1Wiki">http://myopenlink.net/test1/wiki/2/test1Wiki</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>Click the &quot;Index&quot; link from the bottom of the page.
</listitem>
<listitem>As result among the articles from this instance, should be shown also the TestStream article.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para><ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>