<docbook><section><title>ODSWikiClusterSettings</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> ODS Wiki Cluster Settings</bridgehead>
<para>From your ODS Wiki instance UI-&gt; Cluster Settings you can perform different customizations.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Tab <emphasis>Preferences</emphasis></bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Virtual Host Settings <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Index Page: When creating a new <ulink url="OdsWiki">ODS Wiki</ulink> instance, the main Wiki article is created with the name &quot;WelcomeVisitors&quot;.
 From the Index page you can change this name.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Look and Feel <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Primary Skin: You can choose from the list box among predefined templates.
 For reference see <ulink url="ODSWikiTemplates">ODS wiki templates</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>Secondary Skin and VHost Regular Expression: you can set your wiki instance to have a different view when accessed via a particular URL.
 In this case your you need to choose the other skin in Secondary Skin and write a regular expression to match the URL when it&#39;s used.
</listitem>
<listitem>Example: you may have a wiki instance MyWiki accessible through both <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net/me/wiki/MyWiki/">http://myopenlink.net/me/wiki/MyWiki/</ulink> and <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/me/wiki/MyWiki/.">http://myopenlink.net:8890/me/wiki/MyWiki/.</ulink> Choose &#39;default&#39; for &#39;Primary Skin&#39; and &#39;OpenLink&#39; for &#39;Secondary Skin&#39;, and write &#39;:8890&#39; in the text field &#39;VHost Regular Expression&#39;.
 Now try to browse your wiki using each of the URLs.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem><emphasis>Syntax</emphasis> <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Compatibility: Set your preferable wiki markup.
 Currently ODSWiki supports <ulink url="http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Main/WebHome">oWiki</ulink>, <ulink url="http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki">MediaWiki</ulink> and <ulink url="http://www.wikicreole.org/wiki/Creole1.0">CreoleWiki</ulink></listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Tab <emphasis>Templates</emphasis></bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>New Topic: If you want some text to be included in all articles, enter it in this text-area.
 As result it will appear in every new article you further create in that cluster (wiki instance), except for category topic.
</listitem>
<listitem>New Category: If you want some text to be included in all category topics (articles), enter it in this text-area.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Tab <emphasis>Integration</emphasis></bridgehead>
 <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>del.icio.us integration: You may have an account in <ulink url="http://del.icio.us/">delicious</ulink>, so if you switch on this feature, all articles containing category names will be bookmarked in your space in del.icio.us and the category names will be added as tags.
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Import categories: If checked then for your tags in <ulink url="http://del.icio.us/">delicious</ulink> corresponding category topics will be created in your wiki instance.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Mail Integration: If checked then for each article a mail account will be created and added to the article as relevant link.
 To enable this feature you need to have the ods_webmail_dav.vad package installed.
</listitem>
<listitem>Technorati integration: allows you to subscribe to the Technorati cosmos and quickly get context information on news and events of the day (using TECHNORATI:COSMOS and TECHNORATI:TAG macros) </listitem>
<listitem>Conversation (NNTP Integration): transparent integration with NNTP based Discussion Platform for Wiki article discussions.
 To enable this feature you need to have the ods_discussions_dav.vad package installed.
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>When this feature is enabled, for every article you can click the &quot;Conversations&quot; link and post your comments.
 As result you can view them also from ODS-&gt;Discussions-&gt;[your Wiki instance shown as Newsgroup].</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Tab <emphasis>Upstreams</emphasis></bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Upstream Configuration: if you want to make a mirror of your articles to some other wiki instance you specify it in a upstream: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Name: the name of the upstream; </listitem>
<listitem>URL: the remote ODSWiki Atom endpoint for the target wiki instance; </listitem>
<listitem>User: the name of user with write permissions on the target wiki instance; </listitem>
<listitem>Password: the password of that user.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem>The changes you make to the articles in the current wiki instance are automatically mirrored (transferred) every 5 minutes to the instances declared in the upstreams.
 If some error occurs during upstreaming, it will be shown in the error log entries by clicking the &quot;Edit&quot; button for the relevant upstream.
 Immediate upstreaming is performed from the link &quot;Upstream now&quot; at the bottom of the article&#39;s view page.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Example</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="ODSWikiAtomUpstreaming">ODS Wiki Upstreaming</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Tab <emphasis>Security</emphasis></bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Security Configuration <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Inline Macros - if checked you can insert in your article the result of inline defined procedure.
 For example: <programlisting>&lt;?inline {declare x any; x := &#39;result of Virtuoso PL code executed&#39;; http (x, ss123456789); } ?&gt;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>Inter Cluster Autolinks - if checked macro MAIN:DASHBOARD returns all clusters in the ODS, if not returns only the current one.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">References</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="OdsWiki">ODS Wiki</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWikiTemplates">ODS Wiki Templates</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ODSWikiAtomUpstreaming">ODS Wiki Atom Upstreaming</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> <ulink url="CategoryODS">CategoryODS</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink> <ulink url="CategoryHowTo">CategoryHowTo</ulink></para>
</section></docbook>