<docbook><section><title>VirtTipsAndTricksGuide</title><title>Virtuoso Tips and Tricks</title>Virtuoso Tips and Tricks
<para>We have a number of tips and tricks articles, covering various areas of Virtuoso functionality.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Database Administration</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideRunAs">How can I specify an OS user name to which the Virtuoso server will switch after opening the listen ports?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideFindDeadlockTables">How can I find out which tables are deadlocking?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideOutOfMemory">How can I configure parameters to avoid out of memory errors?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksControlUnicode3">How can I control normalization of UNICODE3 accented chars in the free-text index?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideNotRespondingHTTP">What should I do if the Virtuoso Server is not responding to HTTP requests?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksCheckpointClusterEdition">How can I perform a checkpoint against a clustered Virtuoso Server?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCheckpointSet">How can I handle checkpoint condition?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideTablesAndIndexesRecover">How can I backup and restore individual table(s) and individual index(s) on a a new fresh db?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideConductorR2RML">How Do I Generate Transient and/or Persistent Linked Data Views atop ODBC or JDBC accessible Relational Data Sources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtWebIDSQLLogin">How Can I perform SQL login with X 509 WebID watermarked certificate?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksTrxInvalidLGEntry">How do I recover from &quot;Invalid log entry in replay&quot; when transaction log is being replayed during server start?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDBMSBackupCrashDump">How can I move a Virtuoso database from one hardware and/or software platform to another?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideNotRespondingHTTP">What should I do if the Virtuoso Server is not responding to HTTP requests?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideVirtLiteGuide">How can I set up Virtuoso Lite Mode?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideLDMeterUtility">How can I use the LD Meter Utility?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSetApacheVirtuosoPortNumber">How to proxy Virtuoso HTTP server through Apache HTTP server front end?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtClusterNodesHttpConfig">How to configure Virtuoso Cluster slave nodes HTTP listeners?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtElasticClusterConfiguration">How to configure Virtuoso Elastic Cluster?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtMonitorMemoryConsumption">How to Monitor Virtuoso Memory Consumption?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> RDF data management</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideAllGraphs">How can I obtain a list of all graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGraphSecurityLevelSQL">How to manage Graph Security Level for SQL Clients?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples11">How can I test whether two graphs are equal?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples12">How can I add triples to a graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples13">How can I update triples in a graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples14">How can I delete triples from a graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDeleteLargeGraphs">How can I delete triples from a &quot;Large&quot; graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDeleteTriplesWithBlanknodes">How Can I Delete Triples containing blank nodes?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples15">How can I copy triples from one graph to another?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples16">How can I move triples from one graph to another?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples10">How can I drop a graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/sparqlextensions.html#rdfsparulexamples2">What is the difference between &quot;DELETE FROM GRAPH&quot; and &quot;CLEAR GRAPH&quot;?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDROPSilentGraph">How can I drop a graph for which is not clear was it created explicitly or not?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFDatasetDump">How can I perform RDF dumps from Virtuoso Quad store hosted data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFDumpNQuad">How can I perform Dump of RDF Graphs into NQuad dumps?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDeleteGraphProc">How can I delete graphs using stored procedure?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDeleteTriplesPatternsNotScopedNamedGraph">How Can I Delete Triple Patterns that are not scoped to a named graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCreateGraph">What are the differences between create, drop, clear and delete Graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksRDFTriggers">What are &quot;Generate RDB2RDF triggers&quot; and &quot;Enable Data Syncs with Physical Quad Store&quot; Linked Data Views options?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideTrblLinkedDataViews">How Can I Diagnose problems associated with Linked Data views generation?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGraphSecurity">How can I display only some information from RDF graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDropCreateDefaultStrg">Can I drop and re-create the DefaultQuadStorage?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksControlDefineGraphWithSpongeOption">How can I define a graph with virt:rdf_sponger option set to &quot;on&quot;?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideErrorWhenNoMoreThreads">How can I configure Sponger to use Asynchronous Query (AQ) threads?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtBulkRDFLoader">How Do I Perform Bulk Loading of RDF Source Files into one or more Graph IRIs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideRDFSchemaOWLInferenceRules">How to exploit RDF Schema and OWL Inference Rules with minimal effort?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideOWLIinfLinkedVocab">How the power of OWL based inference enables us exploit the power of Linked Vocabularies?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideADONETInsertBynary">How can I insert binary data to Virtuoso RDF storage in plain queries and with parameter binding via ADO.NET calls?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideReplicatellGraphs">How can I replicate all graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideInsertRDFUsingVStudio">How can I insert RDF data from Visual Studio to Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideRenameGraph">How to rename a RDF Graph in the Virtuoso Quad Store?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideRDFPerformanceTuning">How can I configure Virtuoso for maximum performance with available memory?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideLOADCommandRDF">How can I use the LOAD command to import RDF data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideContentNegotiation">How can I incorporate Content Negotiation into RDF bulk loaders?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideBIFContainsOptions">What free-text options can I use with bif:contains?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideBIFContainsSPARULInsert">How can use bif:contains after SPARUL INSERT?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGecodeData">How Do I Gecode Data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDeleteSpecificTriplePatternAcrossGraphs">How I Delete a Specific Triple Across Graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtConfigureCartridges">How Do I configure Sponger Cartridges?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSpongerAClProtection">How Do I protect Sponger Endpoint via ACL-s?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksAdminSpongerInstance">How do I administer Virtuoso Sponger Instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSpongerAllocationAndWebIDACL">How to control user agent usage of Sponger Resources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtsubClassOfOrientedSubsumptionTransitiveOptions">How Do I use transitive SPARQL query options and Exploit Inference Rules?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksTransitivityInferenceLists">How Do I use Transitivity via Inference Rules and Transitivity for lists?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksImportLinkedDataCreateFeature">How Can I Import Linked Data using the Briefcase &quot;Create&quot; feature?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideShortenLongURIs">What is the ShortenLongURIs Virtuoso configuration parameter?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtAnalyzeFixQuadStore">How can I fix RDF Quad Store Index corruption in commercial Release 6.2 and earlier builds</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksInstallPattern">How Can I perform Simple Linked Data Deployment using Virtuoso&#39;s HTTP Re-write Rules?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksAnytimeSPARQLQuery">How Can I Use Virtuoso&#39;s Anytime Query Feature?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSplittingUnProt">How Can I Split 3.4billion triple UniProt datasets file?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDigestAuthAJAX">How Can I insert triples via Digest Authentication into the Quad Store?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLLargeDataUpdate">How to Update Large SPARQL Data avoiding database checkpoint abortion?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksLoadDataInTransactionMode">How can I Load Data into Virtuoso in Transaction Mode (ie auto commit OFF)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksRowToColStoreConversion">How to convert from Row Store to Column Store Table?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGraphLoadTimes">How can I determine the time taken to load datasets with RDF Bulk Loader</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFGraphReplicationSetupSubscriberFromPublisher">How to create a RDF Graph Replication slave Subscriber node from a master Publisher node</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> SPARQL and SPARUL (SPARQL/Update)</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerLinkedDataHooksIntoSPARQL">What Virtuoso Sponger SPARQL pragmas are supported?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCustomSPARQLExtensionFunction">Are Custom SPARQL Extension Functions supported and how can I use them?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLConfWideCharUnicodeUTF">How do I configure Virtuoso to support &quot;wide characters&quot; (e.g., Unicode, UTF-8) for SPARQL querying?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLOptGuideEx1">How can I optimize SPARQL query performance using bifs (built-in functions)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLOptGuideEx2">How can I generate a unique ID via SPARQL?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideReificationAltern">What reification alternatives can I use for Linked Data publishing?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideLinkedDataSimpleGuide">Virtuoso Linked Data Deployment In 3 Simple Steps</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideMergeOneByOne">Is there a difference between a &quot;merge&quot; vs &quot;one by one&quot; execution of queries across named graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSpChar">How can I use iSQL to execute SPARQL queries containing the dollar-sign (&quot;$&quot;) character?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideQuadStorageInternally">How can I set the quad storage to be included in results of queries made to the SPARQL endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideConv">How can I convert between data types using SPARQL in Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLCondPort">Is it possible to have the SPARQL endpoint on a different port than the Conductor?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDataRangeQueries">How can I manage Date Range SPARQL queries?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDataRangeIndexFilter">How to optimize bif:dateadd in SPARQL query using selective
index-friendly filter?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksConvertPropertiesToString">How do I use SPARUL to change a selection of property values from URI References to Literals?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideConstructPreparedStatement">How can I use CONSTRUCT with Prepared Statements?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideExpressionsUsageInConstructInsertDelete">How can I use Expressions inside CONSTRUCT, INSERT and DELETE?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideConstructINSERTStatement">How can I use INSERT via CONSTRUCT Statements?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideTransactionLogControl">How can perform SPARUL Updates without transactional log size getting exceed?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGetCertAttributes">How can I get certificate attributes using SPARQL?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDescribeMode">How does default DESCRIBE mode work?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideDumpArbitaryQueryNTriples">How can I dump arbitrary query result as N-Triples?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideBindNamedGraphPrSt">How do I bind a named graph parameter in a prepared statement?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideInsensSearch">How can I perform Case Insensitive Search across multiple literal values with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideRandomSampleAllTriples">What is best method to get a random sample of all triples for a subset of all the resources of a SPARQL endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideMakeMeshups">How can I use SPARQL to make Meshups?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCustomExactDate">How can I get an exact mapping for a date?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideAddTriplesNamedGraph">How can I use SPARUL to add missing triples to a Named Graph</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLBIIF">How can I use the SPARQL IF operator for SPARQL-BI endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSearchPredicate">How can I perform search for predicate values?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideClearGraphsRelEmptyGraphs">How to clear graphs which are related to empty graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLDET">How can I enable Dynamic Extended Types (DETs) on a Virtuoso SPARQL Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLSubQuery">How can I use sub-queries to enable literal values based joins?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLPrefOrder">How can I execute query with labels preference order?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGetObjDatatype">How can I get object datatype?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideBestPerformanceSPARQLExEndpoint">How to achieve best performance executing a query against SPARQL Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLEndpointProtection">What methods can I use to protect SPARQL Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLAssignRoleToUser">How Do I assign SPARQL role to SQL user?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSampleGroupConcatGroupDigest">When should I use the function SAMPLE and when GROUP_CONCAT or GROUP_DIGEST?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideConstructAggregateFunctions">How can I include aggregate function values as objects in SPARQL CONSTRUCT queries?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCleanErrantData">How Do I Clean Up Errant Data using SPARQL Update Language?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideAddisDefinedByRelations">How to Use SPARQL to add missing isDefinedBy relations to an Ontology?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideImportOntology">How to Import Ontology?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideModifyUsageAsInsert">How Can I Use MODIFY to update triples?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLEndpoints">What are the supported authentication methods associated with a purpose specific default SPARQL endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksInsDelSPARQLSSL">How Can I execute INSERT/DELETE (SPARUL) statements against a WebID protected SPARQL endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtXMLAODBCExplorerLinkedDataViews">How to expose Linked Data View URIs associated with &quot;References&quot; on a given Table?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLArithmeticCollection">How Can I perform SPARQL Date Arithmetic calculations?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSOAPRequestsAgainstSPARQLEndpoint">How Can I send SOAP requests to Virtuoso SPARQL Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksCustomControlLabelsURI">How Can I manage Custom Controlling Virtuoso Labels for URI functionality?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksHowToHandleBandwidthLimitExceed">How Can I Prevent Limits of Sorted LIMIT/OFFSET query?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksAanalyzingSPARQLQuery">How can I get a full &quot;explain&quot; and &quot;profile&quot; plans for a simple SPARQL query?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLPatternMatchFeature">How Can I Use the core feature of SPARQL logic of pattern matching?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLEndpointSaveResultsWebDAV">How To Let the SPARQL Endpoint Save Results In WebDAV?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11FeaturesExamplesCollection">Where can I find examples for SPARQL 1.1 Features supported in Virtuoso?</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11BuiltInF">How Can I use Built-In Functions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11BIND">How Can I use BIND?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11VALUES">How Can I use VALUES?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Subquery">How Can I use Sub-queries?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLNOTEXISTS">How Can I use NOT EXISTS and MINUS?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Assign">How Can I use Assignments?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11PropertyPaths">How Can I use Property Paths?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksVOSvsCommercialEdition">How Can I use SPARQL Named Graphs with SPARQL 1.1 Property Paths and Reasoning?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL 1.1 Update -- Graph Update: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Insert">How Can I use INSERT DATA?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Delete">How Can I use DELETE DATA?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Update">How Can I use INSERT/DELETE DATA?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Load">How Can I use LOAD?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Clear">How Can I use CLEAR?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11RefDataINSTCONST">How Can I use SPARQL 1.1 INSERT patterns and CONSTRUCT to Enhance Existing Data?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL 1.1 Update -- Graph Management: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Create">How Can I use CREATE?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Drop">How Can I use DROP?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Copy">How Can I use COPY?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQL11Move">How Can I use MOVE?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>SPARQL 1.1 Graph Store HTTP Protocol: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtGraphProtocolCURLExamples">How Can I use HTTP POST, HTTP PUT, HTTP GET and HTTP DELETE?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLSingleMultipleExecution">What SPARQL/SPARUL/SPARQL-BI Operations can I perform within Single/Multiple Statements?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLLOADServiceUsage">How Can I use the Virtuoso SPARQL LOAD Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLArithmeticExamplesCollection">Where can I find examples for SPARQL Arithmetic Functions supported in Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLGeneExamplesCollecton">Where can I find examples for Linked Data SPARQL Reference Using the Gene Ontology?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSPARQLEscapeQuotesInEntity">How Can I Escape double quotes in entity name?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksIsPropertyOfSyntaxInTurtle">How can I use {is property of} syntax to express inverse relations in Turtle?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksQueryOptimizerASSUME">How can I use the Virtuoso specific query optimizer hint ASSUME?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDiscoverSPARQFedCapabilities">How to discover the capabilities of a SPARQL endpoint en route to enhancing SPARQL-FED usage from Virtuoso instances using LOAD SERVICE ... DATA?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDiscoverSPARQFedCapabilitiesSPARQL">How to add SPARQL Endpoint Capabilities Interrogation to Virtuoso SPARQL-FED functionality?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDiscoverSPARQFedParams">How to discover  parameters used by SPARQL services that don&#39;t support SPARQL-FED?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksFedOptionClauseSupport">How to handle SPARQL-FED queries for SPARQL endpoints with no OPTION() clause supported?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSplitURLEncodedSeparatedList">How to split a urlencoded  &quot;;-&quot; separated list of urls in a SPARQL query</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSLODStatsAnalysisR">How Can I analyze Linked Open Data with R?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtCheckSvrVersionViaSparql">How to Interrogating attributes of a Virtuoso Server instance via SPARQL</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Pivot Viewer and CXML</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncIntroduction">What are Pivot Collections and does Virtuoso support SPARQL CXML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncKeyParts">What are the main components of the PivotViewer UI and Collection XML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncSparqlEndpointCxmlExtensions">Does the Virtuoso SPARQL protocol endpoint /sparql supports extensions to the SPARQL standard specifically for CXML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncRdfToCxmlMappingBasicApproach">What RDF to CXML Mapping does Virtuoso support?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncDefaultSettings">What are the default settings for the CXML generation?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncFacetTypeAutoDetection">Where can I find more details about the Auto-Detection of Facet Type?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksSetFCTTimeoutMax">Configure the Query Timeout setting for the Virtuoso Facet Browser?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncReservedQueryVariables">What are the SparqlCxml Reserved Query Variables?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncGraphVirtCxml">How can I use the virtcxml graph?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncUsingLabels">How can I use Labels in Place of URIs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxml#AncLinkType">What are the Link Typing specifics?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/SparqlCxmlQueriesCollection">Where can I find examples for SPARQL CXML Queries?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxmlDzcs">What are the SparqlCxml Deep Zoom Collections for and how can I use them?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxmlPivotViewer">How can I use the PivotViewer?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxmlImport">How can I import CXML?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtSparqlCxmlFacetPivotBridge#AncSparqlCxmlFacetPivotBridge">What is the Facet Pivot Bridge?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxmlDETs">What are DETs and how can I used them for persisting SPARQL Query Results to DAV?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCXMLSPARQLURLPattern">What CXML params are supported for the SPARQL URL pattern?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksFCTDemoQueryLinkPopulation">How can I change the Facet &quot;Demo Queries&quot; link?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksFCTDescribeManage">How can I change the Facet &quot;/describe&quot; page?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Other areas</bridgehead>
<para> </para>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksWhoAmI">Who Am I</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksAttachCSVFiles">How to attach a CSV document to Virtuoso Database Server Instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTransactionLogsRead">How to read Virtuoso Transaction logs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtQueryOptDiagnostic">How can I perform Query Optimization Diagnostics?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtLinkedDataPresCollection">Manage Linked (Open) Data</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtOpenIDWebIDProxyServiceGuide">How Can I Use OpenID+WebID?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSWebIDIdpProxy">How can I use the WebID Identity Provider Proxy Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSWebIDIdP">How can I use the WebID Identity Verification Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksLDAPWebID">How can I use LDAP based WebIDs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksMailVerificationService">How can I use the Virtuoso Mail Verification Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksEnableAdoNetProviderInVS2010">How can I enable the Virtuoso Entity Framework 3.5 ADO.Net Provider in Visual Studio 2010?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCustomCrawlerPL">How can I write custom crawler using PL?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideMultithreadJDBC">How can I make Multi Thread Virtuoso connection using JDBC?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideISQLQueryResultOutput">How can I output the result of a SQL SELECT query from isql to a file in Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideSPARQLEndpointQueryResultOutput">How can I output the results of a SPARQL query run against the /sparql endpoint to a file in Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideCORSSetup">How can I setup Server-side Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksCORsEnableSPARQLURLs">How can I perform Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) to enable a Virtuoso SPARQL Endpoint?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideLoadSQLJDBC">How Can I execute load of sql dump from jdbc?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksRecording">How can I make Recording in Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksHTTPInternalRedirect">How can I make internal HTTP redirects?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksVirtuosoDataCenter">Virtuoso Data Center Tips and Tricks</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksUnderstandingRelationshipSemantics">Understanding Relationship semantics and reasoning</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksDetermineDataUsage">How to Determine Data Usage?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtConfigureUserAgentIdentitybySponger">How to configure the User Agent Identity used by a Virtuoso Sponger instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksManageSSLProtocols">How to Manage SSL Protocols and Ciphers used with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSetFCTRegistryForOpenSearch">How to extend URIQA DefaultHost value for properly using Facet Browser as search engine?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTimezoneLessDateTime">Understanding Virtuoso Timezoneless Datetimes</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>