<docbook><section><title>VOSIndex</title><title>Virtuoso Open-Source Edition</title>Virtuoso Open-Source Edition
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What&#39;s New</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> 2016-04-24: Virtuoso 7.2.4 Released, Open Source and Commercial Editions</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="VOSNews">Virtuoso 7.2.4</ulink> includes various enhancements and bug fixes.
 Significantly updated areas include the main Virtuoso Engine; SPARQL functionality; JDBC, Jena, and Sesame providers and functionality; the Faceted Browser; the Conductor; <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> functionality; and the DBpedia VAD.</para>
<para>  <ulink url="VOSNews#2016-04-24%20-%20Virtuoso%207.2.4%20Released,%20Open%20Source%20and%20Commercial%20Editions">Learn more about Virtuoso 7.2.4</ulink>...
 or download it now, either <ulink url="VOSDownload">Open Source</ulink> or <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/download/">Commercial</ulink> Edition!</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> 2015-12-09: Virtuoso 7.2.2 Released, Open Source Edition</bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="VOSNews#2015-12-09%20-%20Virtuoso%20Open-Source%20Edition%207.2.2%20Released">Virtuoso 7.2.2</ulink> includes various enhancements and bug fixes.
 Significantly updated areas include the main Virtuoso Engine; SPARQL functionality; JDBC, Jena, Sesame, and .NET providers and functionality; the Faceted Browser; the Conductor; and <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> functionality.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> 2015-06-24: Virtuoso 7.2.1 Released, Open Source and Commercial Editions</bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="VOSNews#2015-06-24%20-%20Virtuoso%20Open-Source%20Edition%207.2.1%20Released">Virtuoso 7.2.1</ulink> includes various enhancements and bug fixes.
 Important enhancements include new support for xsd:boolean and timezone-less xsd:dateTime, and significantly improved compatibility with the Jena and Sesame Frameworks.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> 2015-02-11: Virtuoso 7.2.0 Released, Open Source and Commercial Editions</bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="VOSNews#2015-02-11%20--%20Virtuoso%20Open-Source%20Edition%207.2.0%20Released">Virtuoso 7.2.0</ulink> includes various fixes and improvements including loosely-coupled SSL/TLS, improved LDP support, <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> access to 3rd party storage services, file system hosted virtual tables, loosely-coupled Sponger Middleware services, SPARQL-FED remote service evaluation.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> 2013-12-10: New VOS 6.1.8 Released (likely final update of v6)</bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="VOSNews#2013-12-10%20--%20Virtuoso%20Open-Source%20Edition%206.1.8%20Released">Virtuoso 6.1.8</ulink> includes improvements in the engine; SPARQL compiler optimisations; improvements in client RPC layer; performance improvements in Jena and Sesame providers; new Conductor <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink> user interface; improved navigation controls for the Faceted Browser.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Previous announcements</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="VOSNews">Older news may be found here</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Download, Build, and Use -- Get Started!</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSIntro">Introduction</ulink> and <ulink url="VOSHistory">History</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSDownload">Download</ulink> and <ulink url="VOSGIT">Git access</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSLicense">Licensing Terms</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSStart">Before you start</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSBuild">Build Overview</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Specific notes for Linux Distributions <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSCentosNotes">CentOS</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSDebianNotes">Debian GNU/Linux</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSFedoraNotes">Fedora Core</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSUbuntuNotes">Ubuntu</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Getting Started: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSDB">Database</ulink>: <ulink url="VOSAdminTour">Conductor</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSUti">Utilities</ulink> that come with Virtuoso </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSTutorial">Tutorials</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSUsageWindows">Windows-specific guide</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSMailingLists">Mailing lists</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> How Do I...</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Get Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSDownload">Download the Open Source Edition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com/virtwiz/">Download the Commercial Edition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoEC2AMI">Obtain and Install the Virtuoso EC2 AMI?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Install Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSBuild">Install the Open Source Edition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/supportweb/InstallationGuides">Install the Commercial Edition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoEC2AMI">Obtain and Install the Virtuoso EC2 AMI?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Upgrade Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSUpgradeInstructions">Upgrade from Release 4.x or earlier, to Release 5.x</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="UpgradingToVOS610">Upgrade from Release 5.x through Release 6.0.x, to Release 6.1.0 and later</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Load, Dump, and otherwise Manage Data with Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFInsert">Insert RDF Data into Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtGraphUpdateProtocol">Manage RDF data by using SPARQL 1.1. Graph Store HTTP Protocol?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtGraphReplication">Perform RDF Graph Replication?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtBulkRDFLoader">Perform Bulk Loading of RDF Source Files into one or more Graph IRIs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtCsvFileBulkLoader">Perform Bulk Loading of CSV Files?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksAttachCSVFiles">Attach a CSV document to Virtuoso Database Server Instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFDatasetDump">Perform Dump and Reload of RDF Graphs?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFDumpNQuad">Perform Dump of RDF Graphs into NQuad dumps?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRdfGraphDumpInfRule">Perform Dump of RDF Graph based on Inference Rules?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtDumpRDFViewGraphs">Perform Dump of RDFView Graph data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRemoveTriples">Remove all triples from Virtuoso Server?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoDAVS3">Sync data from Amazon S3 to Virtuoso and back?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRdfReplScenarios">Exploit Virtuoso&#39;s Replication Functionality re. Web based Solutions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtR2RML">Use R2RML (RDB to RDF Mapping Language) with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VirtRdb2RDFViewsGeneration#OneClickLinkedDataGenerationAndDemployment">Use Virtuoso&#39;s HTML-based Wizard to Generate RDF-based Linked Data from Relational Databases?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSetCrawlerJobsGuide">Set up Crawler Jobs using the Conductor?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/rdfsparql.html#rdfsupportedprotocolendpointuri">How to assign SPARQL_SPONGE privileges to user SPARQL?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerRESTPatterns">Use the Sponger Middleware via REST patterns?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerNanotation">Use the Sponger Nanotations?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerCartridgeProgrammersGuide_Part3">Interact with Sponger Linked Data Middleware via REST patterns?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Query Data in Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
 <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtVisualizeWithPivotViewer">Use Microsoft&#39;s PivotViewer as a front-end to Linked Data sources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtVisualizeWithHtmlPivotViewer">Use HtmlPivotViewer as a front-end to Linked Data sources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxml">Use SPARQL to produce dynamic CXML collections for Microsoft&#39;s PivotViewer</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSparqlCxmlHtml">Use SPARQL to produce dynamic CXML collections for the HtmlPivotViewer</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLOptGuide">Optimize my SPARQL queries&#39; performance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLXSLT">Use SPARQL inside XSLT?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSClient">Connect to a Virtuoso instance via ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, OLE-DB, and XMLA clients?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtODBCJDBCUTF8Set">Set utf8 for ODBC or JDBC connections?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLConfWideCharUnicodeUTF">Configure Virtuoso wide character / unicode / UTF-8 support for SPARQL querying?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoFacetsWebService">Use the Virtuoso Faceted Search &amp; Find Engine?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSRDFDataProviders">Access Virtuoso&#39;s Quad Store via RDF Frameworks such as Jena, Sesame, or Redland?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtJdbcHibernate">Configure Hibernate Connection to Virtuoso using JDBC Driver?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtAdoNet35Provider">Use ADO.NET 3.5 &amp; Entity Frameworks with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtAdoNet35Provider">Use ADO.NET Data Object Services with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoLODSampleTutorial">Use Faceted Navigation to Explore Virtuoso hosted Linked Data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoFctHtmlPivotViewer">Use HtmlPivotViewer to View Results from Facet Browsing?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRoundRobinDataAccessClients">Configure Virtuoso Data Access Clients for Connection Fail over and Load Balancing?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/InteractiveSparqlQueryBuilder">Use the Visual iSPARQL Query Builder against a Virtuoso Instance?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLDET">How Use My SPARQL Endpoint To Save Results Into Its host WebDAV Repository?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLRef">Learn About Virtuoso&#39;s SPARQL Query Language Support, By Example?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtGeoSPARQLEnhancementDocs">Virtuoso Geo Spatial Data type and function enhancements</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Do I Configure Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtManageVersions">Manage Resource Versions?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtURIShortener">Use the Virtuoso URL Shortener?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtClusteringDiagrams">Set Up Replication or Elastic Clustering?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSetupSSL">Set Up the Virtuoso HTTPS Listener?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksManageSSLProtocols">Manage SSL Protocols and Ciphers used with Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSetupSSLVirtuoso">How Do I Setup my Virtuoso Instance as a Certificate Authority for use with SSL/TLS?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtWebIDODBCLogin">Configure WebID Protocol ODBC Login?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFGraphsSecurity">Manage RDF Graphs security levels?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuideGraphSecurityLevelSQL">Manage Graph Security Level for SQL Clients?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSUti">Administer a Virtuoso instance via my Browser?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSetPrefixNames">Set Standard Prefix Names for common vocabularies?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtFacetBrowserInstallConfig">Install and Configure Virtuoso Faceted Browser?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/ODSPkiSetup">Configure Virtuoso+ODS instance as an X.509 Certificate Authority?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSesame2HttpRepository">Configure Virtuoso Sesame HTTP Repository?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtLinkRemoteTables">Attach ODBC or JDBC accessible Data Sources to the Virtuoso Virtual Database Engine?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSSQL2RDF">Create RDF based Linked Data Views over ODBC or JDBC accessible Relational Data Sources?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtRDFPerformanceTuning">Performance Tune the Virtuoso RDF Store?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtCustomizeSPARQLEndpoint">Customize the SPARQL Endpoint Page?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSpongerACL">How can I Setup Virtuoso Sponger Access Control List (ACL)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ValWhatWhyHow">Virtuoso Authentication Layer (VAL) - What, Why and How</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="ValQuickStartGuide">Virtuoso Authentication Layer (VAL) - ACL System QuickStart Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtWTDStepByStepConfigGuide">Virtuoso WebID+TLS+Delegation Step by Step Configuration Guide</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="WebIDTLSDelegationWhatWhyHow">Virtuoso WebID+TLS+Delegation Usage Guide</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How Can I Learn More?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Explore a Variety of Virtuoso Tips and Tricks</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoScienceLibrary">Scientific Publications Specifically About and Related To Virtuoso Technologies</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/tutorial/">Learn about Virtuoso functionality via Tutorials?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSponger">Learn about the Virtuoso RDFization Middleware called the &quot;Sponger&quot;?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtLDP">Learn About Virtuoso&#39;s LDP Support, By Example?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> What Else Can I Do With Virtuoso?</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtDeployingLinkedDataGuide">Deploy Linked Data using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoPHP">Develop Virtuoso Hosted Applications using PHP?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/OdsIntegrationphpBB">Deploy phpBB3 using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/OdsIntegrationDrupal">Deploy Drupal using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/OdsIntegrationWordPress">Deploy WordPress using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtDeployMediaWiki">Deploy MediaWiki using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtDeploSemanticMediaWiki">Deploy SemanticMediaWiki using Virtuoso?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSLODStatsAnalysisR">How Can I analyze Linked Open Data with R?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLSecurityWebID">Secure My SPARQL Endpoint using WebID Protocol?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtSPARQLSSL">Creating and Using a SPARQL-WebID based Endpoint from a command line?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/ODSWebIDIdpProxy">How can I use the WebID Identity Provider Proxy Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/ODSWebIDIdP">How can I use the WebID Identity Verification Service?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtAuthServerUI">Set WebID Protocol using the Virtuoso Authentication Server UI?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/dataspace/doc/dav/wiki/ODS/ODSBriefcaseWebID">Use WebID Protocol for enhanced ODS-Briefcase (WebDAV) Access Control Lists (ACLs)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSTPCHLinkedData">Learn about the Virtuoso SPARQL-BI extensions and TPC-H As Linked Data?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoOAuthProgrammersGuide">Use OAuth for authentication, SPARQL queries, ubiquity commands?</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> FAQ Lists</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSVirtuoso6FAQ">Virtuoso 6 - FAQ</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoFAQ">Virtuoso Product Family - FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Troubleshooting</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/VirtuosoWikiWeb/TroubleshootingVirtuosoProblemCategories">Virtuoso Troubleshooting Resources</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Functionality Realms</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSDB">Object-Relational Database</ulink> for SQL, XML, RDF, and Free Text that includes Java and .NET runtime hosting </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSRDF">RDF</ulink> store and <ulink url="VOSSPARQL">SPARQL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSDAV">WebDAV Server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSSOA">Web Services Platform for SOA</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSAPPSRV">Web Application Server</ulink> for Drupal, WordPress, MediaWiki, and phpBB</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Applications Built using Virtuoso</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com/wiki/ODS/">OpenLink Data Spaces</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Client Connectivity Tools</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/InteractiveSparqlQueryBuilder">Visual iSPARQL Query Builder</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Extensions</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Language Runtime Hosting</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSBldJava">Java</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSBldMono">Mono</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSBldPHP">PHP</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Plugins</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSBldIMG">ImageMagick</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Utility Web Services</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtuosoFacetsWebService">Faceted Browsing</ulink> <emphasis><emphasis>(for Virtuoso 6.0 and later)</emphasis></emphasis></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Mailing Lists</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VOSMailingLists">Virtuoso Mailing Lists</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Additional Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="VirtTipsAndTricksGuide">Virtuoso Tips and Tricks Collection</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VOSArticles">Technical White Papers and Articles</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="VirtPresentations">Presentations</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
</section></docbook>