<docbook><section><title/>
  <para>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/> Atom based
    upstream support</bridgehead>
    <para>ODSWiki now supports Atom based upstreaming. Any cluster can
    be configured to escalate any changes to one or several remoted
    ODSWiki instances.</para>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/>
    Configuration</bridgehead>
    <para>Upstreaming can be configured in Cluster
    Settings page in Upstreams tab.</para>
    <para>The form for adding or changing existing upstream contains
    following fields:</para>
    <table><title/><tgroup><thead/><tbody>
      <row>
        
        
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>name</entry>
        <entry>name of the upstream - list of upstreams actually a
        list of such names</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>URL</entry>
        <entry>URL of remote ODSWiki Atom endpoint. Usually it is
        something like
        =http://{server}[:port]/dataspace/{ownername}/wiki/{clustername}/atom-pub=</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>user</entry>
        <entry>name of user who has write permissions on the remote
        ODSWiki instance</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>password</entry>
        <entry>password of <emphasis>user</emphasis></entry>
      </row>
    </tbody></tgroup></table>
    <bridgehead class="h3"><ulink url=""/>Simple example:</bridgehead>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact">
      <listitem>Note: At myopenlink.net:8890/ods :
        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <listitem>There is an user test1 with pwd 1 registered.</listitem>
          <listitem>User test1 is an owner of a test1Wiki wiki
          instance.</listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <orderedlist spacing="compact">
      <listitem>Install ODS and Wiki packages.</listitem>
      <listitem>Login at <ulink url="http://host:port/ods">http://host:port/ods</ulink>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Go to Wiki tab from the ODS main navigation.</listitem>
      <listitem>Click the "Create New" link.</listitem>
      <listitem>In the shown form click the "Create and Launch
      application".</listitem>
      <listitem>As result is shown the <ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/ODS/WelcomeVisitors">WelcomeVisitors</ulink> wiki home page. From
        the right vertical navigation click the "Cluster Settings"
        link.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Click the "Upstreams" link.</listitem>
      <listitem>Enter in the shown form:
        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <listitem>For field "name": My upstream</listitem>
          <listitem>For field "URL": <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/atom-pub</ulink>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>For field "user": test1</listitem>
          <listitem>For field "password": 1</listitem>
          <listitem>Check the check-box for "Make full cluster upstream
          first".</listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Click the button "Add/Update Upstream".</listitem>
      <listitem>In the "Go" field enter TestStream and click enter.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Enter for the article's body: simple text.</listitem>
      <listitem>Click the button "Save and release lock".</listitem>
      <listitem>After a while, go to <ulink url="http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/">http://myopenlink.net:8890/dataspace/test1/wiki/test1Wiki/</ulink>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Click the "Index" link from the bottom of the page.</listitem>
      <listitem>As result among the article from this instance, should be
      shown also the TestStream article.
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    <para><ulink url="http://ods.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/ODS/CategoryWiki">CategoryWiki</ulink></para>
  </para>
</section></docbook>