<docbook><section><title/>
  <para>
    <title>OAT
    Interactive SPARQL (iSPARQL) Query Builder</title><ulink url=""/>OAT
    Interactive SPARQL (iSPARQL) Query Builder
    
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact">
        <listitem>
          <ulink url="#What%20is%20it%20%3F">What is it ?</ulink>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <ulink url="#Why%20is%20it%20important%3F">Why is it
          important?</ulink>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <ulink url="#How%20do%20you%20use%20it%3F">How do you use
          it?</ulink>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <ulink url="#Usage%20Guides">Usage Guides</ulink>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/>What is it ?</bridgehead>
    <para>The OAT interactive SPARQL Query Builder is a SVG-based
    visual SPARQL query generator and results browser.</para>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/>Why is it
    important?</bridgehead>
    <para>Like its counterpart in the Relational Database realm (SQL),
    SPARQL isn't something that time challenged users, systems
    architects, or developers are going to want to write by hand.
    Uptake and bootstrap of SPARQL is directly linked to the
    ability to visually construct SPARQL queries (Graph
    Patterns).</para>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/>How do you use it?</bridgehead>
    <para>Graph patterns are comprised of Links and Nodes; in the RDF
    Data Model, these links and nodes represent statements called
    <emphasis>Triples.</emphasis></para>
    <para>More importantly, these statements represent "Typed Links"
    between Objects (Data Containers). The Data Web (a directed
    graph of many Typed Links) is fundamentally distinguished from
    the Document Web (a directed graph of Links of a single type:
    Document) by this "Link Typing."</para>
    <para>When working with the iSPARQL Query Builder, your entire
    interaction is centered around:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact">
      <listitem>Adding Nodes to the canvas</listitem>
      <listitem>Connecting Nodes with Links</listitem>
      <listitem>Typing the Nodes and the Links based on Concepts (Nodes)
      and Properties (Attributes and Relationships) exposed in the
      Schemas palette</listitem>
      <listitem>Using connectors with broken lines to indicate Optional
      Links</listitem>
      <listitem>Using the lasso effect to perform group selection for
      drag and drop on the query canvas, e.g., for the depiction of
      UNION queries</listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <bridgehead class="h2"><ulink url=""/> Usage Guides</bridgehead>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact">
      <listitem>
        <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/InteractiveSparqlQueryBuilderOverview">iSPARQL Overview</ulink>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/InteractiveSparqlQueryBuilderRESTMode">iSPARQL REST Mode Support</ulink>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/InteractiveSparqlQueryBuilderTutorials">iSPARQL Tutorials</ulink>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <para><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategorySPARQL">CategorySPARQL</ulink> <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategoryRDF">CategoryRDF</ulink> <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategoryOpenSource">CategoryOpenSource</ulink> <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategoryOAT">CategoryOAT</ulink> <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategoryDocumentation">CategoryDocumentation</ulink> <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com:80/dataspace/owiki/wiki/OATWikiWeb/CategoryWebSite">CategoryWebSite</ulink></para>
  </para>
</section></docbook>