<docbook><section><title>1691</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (U)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Unable to understand SQL Request.
 (1691)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Unable to understand SQL Request.
 (1691)&quot; is a Progress specific error message.
 This message implies that the Progress database could not understand the SQL statement, which is passed by the client application.
 If you experience &quot;SQL Request&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Identify the SQL statement that is passed to the database.
 You may need to generate a clientside ODBC trace, if you use an application that autogenerates SQL.</para><para>2.
 Look at the statement for obvious flaws or elements that may inhibit Progress&#39;s ability to process it.
 For example, Progress SQL89 databases prohibit the use of the keyword AS for column aliasing.</para><para>3.
 Pass the problem statement to Progress using a simple program such as OpenLink&#39;s odbctest (Unix) or C++ Demo (Windows).
 See if the error reoccurs.</para><para>4.
 Pass the problem statement to Progress using a Progress native interface such as clidemo.
 See if the error reoccurs.</para><para>Finally, if you are unable to determine the source of the problem, submit a trace and the outcomes of the tests described in steps #3 and #4.
 Additionally, state whether or not your Progress runs in SQL89, SQL92, or mixed mode.
</para></section></docbook>