<docbook><section><title>AFileOrDirectoryInThePathNameDoesNotExistUnix</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (A)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">A file or directory in the path name does not exist (Unix)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;File or directory&quot; errors are common errors.
 In fact, they are often preceded by another error, which names the actual file or directory that cannot be found.
 If you receive &quot;file or directory&quot; errors, determine if the file or directory exists.
 The following command will assist you with this task: </para><programlisting>find / -name missing_file_name_here -print
</programlisting><para>For example: </para><programlisting>find / -name oplodbc.so -print
</programlisting><para>If the missing item does exist, add its path to relevant environmental variables.
 Here are the most common environmental variables associated with this problem: </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput> - Missing libraries (e.g., <computeroutput>.so</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.sl</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.la</computeroutput>) for most Unix platforms </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput> - Missing AIX libraries (e.g., <computeroutput>.so</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.sl</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.la</computeroutput>) </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> - Missing executables (e.g., <computeroutput>oplrqb</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>_sv</computeroutput>) </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput> - Missing HP/UX libraries (e.g., <computeroutput>.so</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.sl</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>.la</computeroutput>)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>A command like one of these lines may be used to set these or other variables: </para><programlisting>VARIABLE=/path/to/missing/file:$VARIABLE ; export VARIABLE

export VARIABLE=/path/to/missing/file:$VARIABLE
</programlisting><para>For example: </para><programlisting>LIBPATH=/usr/openlink/lib/:$LIBPATH ; export LIBPATH
</programlisting><para>Be advised -- If you are relinking a database agent, add the file&#39;s path to the script which produced the error.
 The following instructions will assist you with this task: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> cd into the /lib sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the ld script which you have run.
 For example: <programlisting>vi ldora80
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Pass the path to the file on the cc line after -o.
 For example: <programlisting>cc -L $ORACLE_HOME/lib -o /your_new_path_here
</programlisting>ex: <computeroutput>cc -L $ORACLE_HOME/lib -o /usr/lib/libsocket</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Names of .taz files </listitem>
<listitem> Output of <computeroutput>set</computeroutput> </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log </listitem>
<listitem> <computeroutput>uname -a</computeroutput> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>