<docbook><section><title>BrokerIsUnableToResolveYourRequest</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: the broker cannot resolve your request </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>the broker cannot resolve your request</computeroutput> 
<para>This error message typically arises when your DSN is misconfigured.
 To remedy this problem, take the following action: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open the <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file which resides in the <computeroutput>/bin/</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Domain Aliases]</computeroutput> stanza.
 For example: <programlisting>[Domain Aliases]
Progress 81A = pro81a
Progress 82A = pro82a
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> The Domain keyword of your DSN should be set to one of the left-side values.
 For example: <programlisting>Domain = Progress 82A
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> If none of the existing Aliases is suitable, you can add a new alias to the list, including something custom for your user base, and put that in your DSN.
 For example: <programlisting>[Domain Aliases]
OurProgressDatabase = pro82a
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> There should already exist (or you can create) a properly configured Mapping Rule, Agent Configuration (<computeroutput>[generic_...]</computeroutput>) stanza, and corresponding <computeroutput>Environment</computeroutput> stanza, which correspond to the right-side value for the alias in your DSN.
 For example: <programlisting>[Mapping Rules]
pro82a:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_pro82a

...

[generic_pro82a]
Program = pro82a_sv.exe
Environment = PROGRESS82A
ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31
ReUse = never

...

[Environment PROGRESS82A]
DLC = C:\DLC
Path = C:\DLC\BIN;D:\WINNT\System32
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> If you have made any changes, save the Rulebook, and stop and restart your Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Request Broker Session Rulebook </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Version String </listitem>
<listitem> DSN configuration </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>