<docbook><section><title>CannotBindToSocket</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: Cannot bind to socket (Address already in use) </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Cannot bind to socket (Address already in use)</computeroutput> 
<para>These errors are typically associated with the Request Broker&#39;s HTTP-based Admin Assistant.
 If you receive &quot;Cannot bind to socket&quot; errors, run the following command:</para><para> </para><blockquote><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikinetstat -a | grep &lt;Admin_Assistant_port_number&gt;</span></blockquote><para>For example:</para><para> </para><blockquote><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikinetstat -a | grep 8000</span></blockquote><para>If the port is busy, take the following action: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Access the machine on which you want to host the Admin Assistant (i.e., the Broker host).
</listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open <computeroutput>www_sv.ini</computeroutput>, typically found in the <computeroutput>/bin/w3config</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Startup]</computeroutput> stanza.
 For example: <programlisting>[Startup]
HttpPort = 8000
HttpRoot = html
Timeout = 60
TclInclude = include
ScriptDirectories = /scripts
CGIDirectories = /cgi-bin
IndexPage = /index.html
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Set <computeroutput>HttpPort</computeroutput> to a different, unused TCP port.
 For example: <programlisting>HttpPort = 8001
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Admin Assistant Log </listitem>
<listitem> output of <computeroutput>netstat -a</computeroutput></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>