<docbook><section><title>CannotAttachToSharedMemory</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (C)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Cannot attach to shared memory (529)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Cannot attach to shared memory&quot; errors are returned by the Informix database server.
 If you receive &quot;shared memory&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Consult your Informix user manual.
 Your user manual will help you debug any conditions which occur in the Informix database layer.</para><para>2.
 Insure that you can connect and run your queries with the Informix DBACCESS utility.
 If you cannot run your queries with DBACCESS, stop here.
 You must continue to debug Informix.</para><para>3.
 If DBACCESS works, open your Informix user&#39;s .profile (Unix) or your Informix SetNet32 utility (WinNT).
 Record the values that are being passed to INFORMIXSERVER, INFORMIXDIR, TBCONFIG, and/or other environmental variables.</para><para>4.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>5.
 Locate the [Environment INFORMIX] section which corresponds to your OpenLink Database Agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX5]
INFORMIXDIR = /Informix/usr
TBCONFIG =/informix/usr/etc/tbconfig2
FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE = 1
OPL_SPACEPADCHAR= Y
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Insure that the Informix environment variables pass the same values which you recorded in #3.</para><para>7.
 Pay particular attention to TBCONFIG.
 &quot;Shared memory&quot; errors tend to occur when full paths are passed to TBCONFIG.
 For example:</para><programlisting>TBCONFIG =/informix/usr/etc/tbconfig2 WRONG
TBCONFIG =tbconfig2 CORRECT
</programlisting><para> 8.
 Exit the oplrqb.ini file.</para><para>9.
 Restart or reinitialize your Broker, if you made changes.</para><para>10.
 Test.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book</para><para>Request Broker Log</para><para>DBMS Version</para></section></docbook>