<docbook><section><title>ClassOPLDataSource</title><para> 11.11.4.
 Class <ulink url="OPLDataSource">OPLDataSource</ulink> <ulink url="OPLDataSource">OPLDataSource</ulink> Classes <ulink url="OPLDataSource">OPLDataSource</ulink></para><para>A <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> object is a factory for Connection objects.
 An object that implements the <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> interface will typically be registered with a JNDI service provider.
 A JDBC driver that is accessed via the <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> API does not automatically register itself with the <ulink url="DriverManager">DriverManager</ulink>.
11.11.4.1.
 Synopsis</para><para>public class <ulink url="OPLDataSource">OPLDataSource</ulink> implements <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink>,Serializable,Referenceable {   <emphasis> Public Constructors   public <ulink url="OPLDataSource">OPLDataSource</ulink>();   </emphasis> Public Methods   public Reference getReference() throws javax.naming.NamingException;   public Connection getConnection() throws java.sql.SQLException;   public Connection getConnection(java.lang.String user,                                   java.lang.String password)       throws java.sql.SQLException;   public <ulink url="PrintWriter">PrintWriter</ulink> getLogWriter() throws java.sql.SQLException;   public void setLogWriter(java.io.PrintWriter parm)       throws java.sql.SQLException;   public int getLoginTimeout() throws java.sql.SQLException;   public void setLoginTimeout(int parm) throws java.sql.SQLException;   public String getDataSourceName();   public void setDataSourceName(java.lang.String parm);   public String getDescription();   public void setDescription(java.lang.String parm);   public int getPortNumber();   public void setPortNumber(int parm);   public String getServerName();   public void setServerName(java.lang.String parm);   public String getDatabaseName();   public void setDatabaseName(java.lang.String parm);   public String getUser();   public void setUser(java.lang.String parm);   public String getPassword();   public void setPassword(java.lang.String parm);   public String getSVT();   public void setSVT(java.lang.String parm);   public boolean getReadOnly();   public void setReadOnly(boolean parm);   public String getDbOptions();   public void setDbOptions(java.lang.String parm);   public String getFBS();   public void setFBS(java.lang.String parm);   public String getCharSet();   public void setCharSet(java.lang.String parm);   public String getCursorModel();   public void setCursorModel(java.lang.String parm);   public String getConcurrencyType();   public void setConcurrencyType(java.lang.String parm);   public boolean getEncrypted();   public void setEncrypted(boolean parm);   public boolean getDeferLongFetch();   public void setDeferLongFetch(boolean parm);   public String getApplication();   public void setApplication(java.lang.String parm);   public boolean getUnicode();   public void setUnicode(boolean parm);   public String getURL();   public void setURL(java.lang.String parm); }</para><para> Inheritance Path java.lang.Object
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> openlink.javax.OPLDataSource</para><para> 11.11.4.2.
 Members 11.11.4.2.1.
 Method getApplication() getApplication Methods getApplication</para><para>Synopsis: public String getApplication();</para><para> Get the Application name set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.2.
 Method getCharSet() getCharSet Methods getCharSet</para><para>Synopsis: public String getCharSet();</para><para> Get the charset of remote database set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.3.
 Method getConcurrencyType() getConcurrencyType Methods getConcurrencyType</para><para>Synopsis: public String getConcurrencyType();</para><para> Get the default Concurrency Type for scrollable <ulink url="ResultSets">ResultSets</ulink> set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.4.
 Method getConnection() getConnection Methods getConnection</para><para>Synopsis: public Connection getConnection() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Attempt to establish a database connection.</para><para>11.11.4.2.5.
 Method getConnection(String, String) getConnection Methods getConnection</para><para>Synopsis: public Connection getConnection(java.lang.String user,                                           java.lang.String password)               throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Parameters</para><para>user - the database user on whose behalf the Connection is being made</para><para>password - the user&#39;s password</para><para>return - a Connection to the database</para><para>Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Attempt to establish a database connection.</para><para>11.11.4.2.6.
 Method getCursorModel() getCursorModel Methods getCursorModel</para><para>Synopsis: public String getCursorModel();</para><para> Get the default Cursor Model for scrollable <ulink url="ResultSets">ResultSets</ulink> set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.7.
 Method getDatabaseName() getDatabaseName Methods getDatabaseName</para><para>Synopsis: public String getDatabaseName();</para><para> Get the name of the database set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.8.
 Method getDataSourceName() getDataSourceName Methods getDataSourceName</para><para>Synopsis: public String getDataSourceName();</para><para> Get the datasource name for this instance if set.
 The default value is &quot;<ulink url="OPLDataSourceName">OPLDataSourceName</ulink>&quot;</para><para>11.11.4.2.9.
 Method getDbOptions() getDbOptions Methods getDbOptions</para><para>Synopsis: public String getDbOptions();</para><para> Get the Database Options set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.10.
 Method getDeferLongFetch() getDeferLongFetch Methods getDeferLongFetch</para><para>Synopsis: public boolean getDeferLongFetch();</para><para> Get if the <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance uses the deferLongFetch for long data.</para><para>11.11.4.2.11.
 Method getDescription() getDescription Methods getDescription</para><para>Synopsis: public String getDescription();</para><para> Get the description of this data source.</para><para>11.11.4.2.12.
 Method getEncrypted() getEncrypted Methods getEncrypted</para><para>Synopsis: public boolean getEncrypted();</para><para> Get if the outgoing packets are encrypted for this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.13.
 Method getFBS() getFBS Methods getFBS</para><para>Synopsis: public String getFBS();</para><para> Get the Fetch Buffer Size set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.14.
 Method getLoginTimeout() getLoginTimeout Methods getLoginTimeout</para><para>Synopsis: public int getLoginTimeout() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Gets the maximum time in seconds that this data source can wait while attempting to connect to a database.
 A value of zero means that the timeout is the default system timeout if there is one; otherwise it means that there is no timeout.
 When a <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> object is created the login timeout is initially zero.</para><para>11.11.4.2.15.
 Method getLogWriter() getLogWriter Methods getLogWriter</para><para>Synopsis: public <ulink url="PrintWriter">PrintWriter</ulink> getLogWriter() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>The log writer is a character output stream to which all logging and tracing messages for this data source object instance will be printed.
 This includes messages printed by the methods of this object, messages printed by methods of other objects manufactured by this object, and so on.
 Messages printed to a data source specific log writer are not printed to the log writer associated with the java.sql.Drivermanager class.
 When a <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> object is created the log writer is initially null, in other words, logging is disabled.</para><para>11.11.4.2.16.
 Method getPassword() getPassword Methods getPassword</para><para>Synopsis: public String getPassword();</para><para> Get the password set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.17.
 Method getPortNumber() getPortNumber Methods getPortNumber</para><para>Synopsis: public int getPortNumber();</para><para> Get the port number on which oplrqb is listening for requests.
 The default value is 5000</para><para>11.11.4.2.18.
 Method getReadOnly() getReadOnly Methods getReadOnly</para><para>Synopsis: public boolean getReadOnly();</para><para> Get the <ulink url="ReadOnly">ReadOnly</ulink> attribute set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.19.
 Method getServerName() getServerName Methods getServerName</para><para>Synopsis: public String getServerName();</para><para> Get the name of the host on which oplrqb is running.
 The default value is &quot;localhost&quot;</para><para>11.11.4.2.20.
 Method getSVT() getSVT Methods getSVT</para><para>Synopsis: public String getSVT();</para><para> Get the <ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink> set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.21.
 Method getUnicode() getUnicode Methods getUnicode</para><para>Synopsis: public boolean getUnicode();</para><para> Get if the <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance uses the Unicode connection with a DBMS agent.</para><para>11.11.4.2.22.
 Method getURL() getURL Methods getURL</para><para>Synopsis: public String getURL();</para><para> Get the URL for this Datasource instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.23.
 Method getUser() getUser Methods getUser</para><para>Synopsis: public String getUser();</para><para> Get the user name set on this <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.24.
 Method setApplication(String) setApplication Methods setApplication</para><para>Synopsis: public void setApplication(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - Application name to be set</para><para>Set the Application name with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.25.
 Method setCharSet(String) setCharSet Methods setCharSet</para><para>Synopsis: public void setCharSet(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - <ulink url="CharSet">CharSet</ulink> to be set</para><para>Set the charset of remote database with which connections have to be obtained.
 The default value is get from System.getProperty(&quot;fil...
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.26.
 Method setConcurrencyType(String) setConcurrencyType Methods setConcurrencyType</para><para>Synopsis: public void setConcurrencyType(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - Concurrency Type to be set</para><para>Set the default Concurrency Type for scrollable <ulink url="ResultSets">ResultSets</ulink> with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.27.
 Method setCursorModel(String) setCursorModel Methods setCursorModel</para><para>Synopsis: public void setCursorModel(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - <ulink url="CursorModel">CursorModel</ulink> to be set</para><para>Set the default Cursor Model for scrollable <ulink url="ResultSets">ResultSets</ulink> with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.28.
 Method setDatabaseName(String) setDatabaseName Methods setDatabaseName</para><para>Synopsis: public void setDatabaseName(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - database name to be set</para><para>Set the name of a particular database on a server.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.29.
 Method setDataSourceName(String) setDataSourceName Methods setDataSourceName</para><para>Synopsis: public void setDataSourceName(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> name to be set</para><para>Set the <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> name.
 The default value is &quot;<ulink url="OPLDataSourceName">OPLDataSourceName</ulink>&quot;</para><para>11.11.4.2.30.
 Method setDbOptions(String) setDbOptions Methods setDbOptions</para><para>Synopsis: public void setDbOptions(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - Database Options to be set</para><para>Set the Database Options with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.31.
 Method setDeferLongFetch(boolean) setDeferLongFetch Methods setDeferLongFetch</para><para>Synopsis: public void setDeferLongFetch(boolean parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - true for a <ulink url="DeferLongFetch">DeferLongFetch</ulink> connection</para><para>Set the <ulink url="DeferLongFetch">DeferLongFetch</ulink> attribute with which connections have to be obtained.
 The default value is false . Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.32.
 Method setDescription(String) setDescription Methods setDescription</para><para>Synopsis: public void setDescription(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - Description to be set.</para><para>Set the description for this data source instance.</para><para>11.11.4.2.33.
 Method setEncrypted(boolean) setEncrypted Methods setEncrypted</para><para>Synopsis: public void setEncrypted(boolean parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - true if outgoing packets must be encrypted</para><para>Set the Encrypted flag for outgoing packets with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.34.
 Method setFBS(String) setFBS Methods setFBS</para><para>Synopsis: public void setFBS(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - <ulink url="FetchBufferSize">FetchBufferSize</ulink> to be set</para><para>Sets number of JDBC resultset rows that get packed into a single network packet Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.35.
 Method setLoginTimeout(int) setLoginTimeout Methods setLoginTimeout</para><para>Synopsis: public void setLoginTimeout(int parm) throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - the data source login time limit (in seconds)</para><para>Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Sets the maximum time in seconds that this data source will wait while attempting to connect to a database.
 A value of zero specifies that the timeout is the default system timeout if there is one; otherwise it specifies that there is no timeout.
 When a <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> object is created the login timeout is initially zero.</para><para>11.11.4.2.36.
 Method setLogWriter(<ulink url="PrintWriter">PrintWriter</ulink>) setLogWriter Methods setLogWriter</para><para>Synopsis: public void setLogWriter(java.io.PrintWriter parm)               throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - the new log writer; to disable, set to null</para><para>Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>The log writer is a character output stream to which all logging and tracing messages for this data source object instance will be printed.
 This includes messages printed by the methods of this object, messages printed by methods of other objects manufactured by this object, and so on.
 Messages printed to a data source specific log writer are not printed to the log writer associated with the java.sql.Drivermanager class.
 When a <ulink url="DataSource">DataSource</ulink> object is created the log writer is initially null, in other words, logging is disabled.</para><para>11.11.4.2.37.
 Method setPassword(String) setPassword Methods setPassword</para><para>Synopsis: public void setPassword(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - password to be set</para><para>Set the password with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.38.
 Method setPortNumber(int) setPortNumber Methods setPortNumber</para><para>Synopsis: public void setPortNumber(int parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - port number on which oplrqb is listening</para><para>Set the port number where the oplrqb is listening for requests.
 The default value is 5000 . Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.39.
 Method setReadOnly(boolean) setReadOnly Methods setReadOnly</para><para>Synopsis: public void setReadOnly(boolean parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - true for a readOnly connection</para><para>Set the <ulink url="ReadOnly">ReadOnly</ulink> attribute with which connections have to be obtained.
 The default value is false . Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.40.
 Method setServerName(String) setServerName Methods setServerName</para><para>Synopsis: public void setServerName(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - name of the host on which oplrqb is running</para><para>Set the name of the host where the oplrqb is running.
 The default value is &quot;localhost&quot; . Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.41.
 Method setSVT(String) setSVT Methods setSVT</para><para>Synopsis: public void setSVT(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - <ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink> to be set</para><para>Set the <ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink> with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.42.
 Method setUnicode(boolean) setUnicode Methods setUnicode</para><para>Synopsis: public void setUnicode(boolean parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - true for a Unicode connection</para><para>Set the Unicode attribute with which connections have to be obtained.
 The default value is false . Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para>11.11.4.2.43.
 Method setURL(String) setURL Methods setURL</para><para>Synopsis: public void setURL(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - URL to be set</para><para>Set the URL with which connections have to be obtained.</para><para>11.11.4.2.44.
 Method setUser(String) setUser Methods setUser</para><para>Synopsis: public void setUser(java.lang.String parm);</para><para> Parameters</para><para>parm - username to be set</para><para>Set the user name with which connections have to be obtained.
 Will be overwritten with value from URL, if URL is set.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>