<docbook><section><title>ClassOPLPooledConnection</title><para> 11.11.7.
 Class <ulink url="OPLPooledConnection">OPLPooledConnection</ulink> <ulink url="OPLPooledConnection">OPLPooledConnection</ulink> Classes <ulink url="OPLPooledConnection">OPLPooledConnection</ulink></para><para>A <ulink url="PooledConnection">PooledConnection</ulink> object is a connection object that provides hooks for connection pool management.
 A <ulink url="PooledConnection">PooledConnection</ulink> object represents a physical connection to a data source.
11.11.7.1.
 Synopsis</para><para>public class <ulink url="OPLPooledConnection">OPLPooledConnection</ulink> implements <ulink url="PooledConnection">PooledConnection</ulink>,Cloneable {   <emphasis> Public Methods   public void finalize() throws java.lang.Throwable;   public void addConnectionEventListener(                 javax.sql.ConnectionEventListener parm);   public void removeConnectionEventListener(                 javax.sql.ConnectionEventListener parm);   public void close() throws java.sql.SQLException;   public void closeAll() throws java.sql.SQLException;   public Connection getConnection() throws java.sql.SQLException; }</emphasis></para><para> Inheritance Path java.lang.Object
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> openlink.javax.OPLPooledConnection</para><para> 11.11.7.2.
 Members 11.11.7.2.1.
 Method addConnectionEventListener(<ulink url="ConnectionEventListener">ConnectionEventListener</ulink>) addConnectionEventListener Methods addConnectionEventListener</para><para>Synopsis: public void addConnectionEventListener(                         javax.sql.ConnectionEventListener parm);</para><para> Add an event listener.</para><para>11.11.7.2.2.
 Method close() close Methods close</para><para>Synopsis: public void close() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Close the physical connection.</para><para>11.11.7.2.3.
 Method closeAll() closeAll Methods closeAll</para><para>Synopsis: public void closeAll() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Close all the Statement objects that have been opened by this <ulink url="PooledConnection">PooledConnection</ulink> object.</para><para>11.11.7.2.4.
 Method getConnection() getConnection Methods getConnection</para><para>Synopsis: public Connection getConnection() throws java.sql.SQLException;</para><para> Exceptions</para><para>java.sql.SQLException</para><para>if a database-access error occurs</para><para>Create an object handle for this physical connection.
 The object returned is a temporary handle used by application code to refer to a physical connection that is being pooled.</para><para>11.11.7.2.5.
 Method removeConnectionEventListener(<ulink url="ConnectionEventListener">ConnectionEventListener</ulink>) removeConnectionEventListener Methods removeConnectionEventListener</para><para>Synopsis: public void removeConnectionEventListener(                         javax.sql.ConnectionEventListener parm);</para><para> Remove an event listener.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>