<docbook><section><title>ColumnXNotInAnyTableInCurrentScope</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (C)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Column <computeroutput>&lt;column&gt;</computeroutput> not in any table in current scope</bridgehead>
<para> The &quot;Column <computeroutput>&lt;column&gt;</computeroutput> not in any table in current scope&quot; error message has several causes.
 Review the following possibilities:</para><para>1.
 Is this error isolated to the Excel Query Wizard? If the Excel Query Wizard is the only product which exhibits this behavior, use MSQUERY.
 The Excel Query Wizard has a bug.</para><para>2.
 Is this error associated with older versions of Microsoft Access and Excel? If this problem is generalized to both applications, install the latest MDAC components from the following site:</para><para><ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/data/download.htm">http://www.microsoft.com/data/download.htm</ulink></para><para>If this does not remedy the problem, obtain MS-Office SR2 or upgrade.</para><para>3.
 Is this error specific to Progress databases? If you are connecting to Progress, implement tableview.
 Tableview insures that table and column metadata is visible to Microsoft applications.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para> Request Broker Log ODBC Client Trace Windows Driver Manager Version</para></section></docbook>