<docbook><section><title>ConfigLinkedServers2005OPLOLEDB</title><title> Configuring a Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Linked Server with the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition OLE DB Provider for ODBC Data Sources </title> Configuring a Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Linked Server with the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition OLE DB Provider for ODBC Data Sources 
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Login to the machine that hosts the Microsoft SQL Server 2005 instance.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Start</emphasis> and <emphasis>Programs</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server 2005</emphasis> folder.
</listitem>
<listitem> Launch the <emphasis>SQL Server Management Studio</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the menu tree associated with your Microsoft SQL Server instance.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Server Objects</emphasis> menu tree.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Linked Servers</emphasis> menu tree.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Providers</emphasis> menu tree.
</listitem>
<listitem> Right click the <emphasis>OpenLink Provider</emphasis> and set these options: <programlisting>[*] Dynamic parameter
[*] Nested Queries
[ ] Level zero only
[*] Allow inprocess
[ ] Non transacted updates
[ ] index as access path
[ ] Disallow adhoc access
[*] Supports &#39;Like&#39; operator
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes.
</listitem>
<listitem> Right click on <emphasis>Linked Servers</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>New Linked Server</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Supply the following information on your <emphasis>General</emphasis> tab: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Linked Server:</emphasis> <emphasis>Any name you like.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> (Check <emphasis>Other Data Source</emphasis>) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Provider Name:</emphasis> OpenLink OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Product Name:</emphasis> OpenLinkODBC </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Data Source:</emphasis> <emphasis>Valid ODBC DSN</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> OpenLink ODBC DSNs do not store username and password data, so these should be set in the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> tab, below.</emphasis> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> This is the minimum information which you must supply.
 <emphasis>Provider Name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Product Name</emphasis> must be exactly as shown above.
 Feel free to engage any server options on the bottom of the tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> If your ODBC Data Sources requires Username and Password authentication, click to the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> tab and review your options.
 This is the only way to provide user credentials to the ODBC connection.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to create your server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Linked Server dialog box and the Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server Query Analyzer.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Run the following query to test your Linked Server: <programlisting>select * from OPENQUERY (Your_LINKEDSERVER_Name, &#39;your SQL query here&#39;)
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>