<docbook><section><title>ConfigureOraclePooling</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure Oracle Connection Pooling</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to configure Oracle Connection Pooling:</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Single-Tier (Lite) Windows</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Log in to the machine that hosts OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier (Lite Drivers).</para><para>2.
 Launch your ODBC Data Sources Administrator.</para><para>3.
 Locate your OpenLink DSN.</para><para>4.
 Click the Configure button.</para><para>5.
 Scroll through the configuration screens until you find the &quot;Enable OC Connection Pooling&quot; checkbox.</para><para>6.
 Check the Pooling checkbox to create a separate connection pool for each Oracle instance to which you connect.</para><para>7.
 Configure the rest of the fields related to Pooling:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Minimum Pool Size</emphasis> - The minimum number of connections to be opened when the pool is created.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Maximum Pool Size</emphasis> - The maximum number of connections that can be opened in the pool.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Increment</emphasis> - The incremental number of connections to be opened when all the connections are busy and a call needs a connection.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Linger time</emphasis> - The amount of time to wait for a connection when all connections are busy and the maximum number of open connections has been reached.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Wait for free connection</emphasis> - The length of time the last connection in the pool should linger before the pool is destroyed.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>