<docbook><section><title>ConfigureMultipleBrokersOnASingleMachine</title><para>Users often need to run two Multi-Tier Request Brokers on a single machine.
 Development testing, load balancing, and related issues often necessitate this.
 If you need to intend to test with one Broker running and one Broker down, the only thing that you need to is provide unique Listen and Administrative Assistant tcp ports during installation.
 If you intend to run both Brokers at the same time, read this --</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that hosts the OpenLink Request Broker(s).</para><para>2.
 Use the bash command to open a bash shell.
 Alternatively, use the sh command to open a bourne shell.
 # This step is optional.</para><para>3.
 cd into the bin sub-directory of the pre-existing installation.</para><para>4.
 vi the oplrqb.ini file.</para><para>5.
 Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.</para><para>6.
 Identify the TCP port passed to Listen.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Protocol TCP]
PingWatchdog = No	; Send check-alive packets
PingInterval = 600	;   every &lt;PingInterval&gt; seconds
;IPAddress      = 127.0.0.1    	; Overrules found interface address
PortLow      = 5020
;PortHigh	= 60000
Listen       = 5020
</programlisting><para>5.
 Exit the file.</para><para>6.
 cd into the ~/openlink/bin/w3config directory.</para><para>7.
 vi www_sv.ini.</para><para>8.
 Find [Startup].</para><para>9.
 Identify the TCP port passed to  HttpPort.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Startup]
HttpPort          = 8005
HttpRoot          = html
Timeout           = 60
TclInclude        = include
ScriptDirectories = /scripts
CGIDirectories    = /cgi-bin
IndexPage         = /index.html
</programlisting><para> 10.
 Exit the file.</para><para>11.
 If you intend to add a 6.x or newer installation to a machine hosting OpenLink&#39;s 1.x, 3.x, 4.x, or 5.x builds, it may be necessary to shutdown the existing Request Broker and restart it after the new, 6.x+ Broker is running.
 Plan and act accordingly.</para><para>12.
 Create a new install directory to host the new Multi-Tier server components.</para><para>13.
 Download the installation files and shell script into this directory.</para><para>14.
 Execute the .profile of the target database or database native client.</para><para>15.
 Run the following command to start the installation:</para><programlisting>sh install.sh
</programlisting><para>16.
 Provide *unique* TCP ports for use by the new Request Broker and Administrative Assistant.</para><para> 17.
 Allow the installation to complete.</para><para>18.
 Execute the following command from the root of the new installation:</para><para>.
 ./openlink.sh</para><para>19.
 cd into the bin sub-directory of the installation.</para><para>20.
 Download the relevant license file into this directory.</para><para>21.
 6.x+ users execute this command:</para><programlisting>./oplmgr +start
</programlisting><para>22.
 Execute this command:</para><programlisting>./oplrqb +loglevel 7 +logfile oplrqb.log
</programlisting><para> 23.
 Test a connection to the new Broker.
 Remember to use this new Broker&#39;s Listen port in your DSNs or URLs.</para><para>24.
 Restart your pre-existing Broker, if applicable.</para><para>25.
 Test a connection to your pre-existing Broker.
</para></section></docbook>