<docbook><section><title>ConfigureDB2DBAliasonUnix</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure a DB2 Database Alias (Unix)</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to configure DB2 database aliases on Unix and Linux operating systems:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains your DB2 native client software.</para><para>2.
 su to your DB2 instance owner.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>su - db2inst1</computeroutput></para><para> 3.
 Execute the .profile associated with the db2instance owner.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>. ./.profile</computeroutput></para><para>4.
 Use the echo command to ensure DB2DIR is set.</para><para> <computeroutput>echo $DB2DIR</computeroutput></para><para> 5.
 Use the echo command to ensure DB2INSTANCE is set.</para><para> <computeroutput>echo $DB2INSTANCE</computeroutput></para><para> 6.
 cd into the $DB2INSTANCE/sqllib/bin directory.</para><para> <computeroutput>cd $DB2INSTANCE/sqllib/bin</computeroutput></para><para> 7.
 Execute the db2 command.</para><para> <computeroutput>./db2</computeroutput></para><para> 8.
 Execute the catalog node command using the following syntax.</para><para> <computeroutput>catalog tcpip node arbitrary_node_name remote database_server_name server db2_listening_port</computeroutput></para><para> Here is an example:</para><para>  <computeroutput>catalog tcpip node WIN64IA remote openwin64 server 50000</computeroutput></para><para>9.
 Execute the terminate command.</para><para> <computeroutput>terminate</computeroutput></para><para> 10.
 Execute the catalog database command using the following syntax:</para><para> <computeroutput>catalog database database_name as remotedb at node arbitrary_node_name_from_above</computeroutput></para><para> Here is an example:</para><para> <computeroutput>catalog database sample as remotedb at node WIN64IA</computeroutput></para><para> 11.
 Execute the terminate command.</para><para> <computeroutput>terminate</computeroutput></para><para> 11.
 Execute the connect to database command where database is the remotedb alias from step #10.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>connect to remotedb</computeroutput></para><para> 12.
 Wait for a successful connection.</para><para>Use the remotedb alias in the database alias field of your DB2 Lite Data Source Names.
</para></section></docbook>