<docbook><section><title>ConfigDTSOPLOLEDB</title><title> Configuring Microsoft SQL Server DTS Import using the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition OLE DB Provider for ODBC Data Sources </title> Configuring Microsoft SQL Server DTS Import using the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition OLE DB Provider for ODBC Data Sources 
<para>Use the following instructions to configure a DTS Import.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <emphasis>Console Root</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Servers</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>SQL Server Group</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Your Actual SQL Server.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> folder. </listitem>
<listitem> Right click on <emphasis>Linked Servers.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;<emphasis>New Linked Server</emphasis>.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Supply the following information on your <emphasis>General</emphasis> tab: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Linked Server</emphasis>: Any descriptive name (no spaces) </listitem>
<listitem> (Check the &quot;<emphasis>Other Data Source</emphasis>&quot; radio button) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Provider Name</emphasis>: <emphasis><computeroutput>OpenLink ODBC Provider</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Product Name</emphasis>: <emphasis><computeroutput>OpenLinkOLEDB</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Data Source</emphasis>: Your Multi-Tier DSN </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Do not check any server options on the bottom of the tab. </listitem>
<listitem> Provide your Data Source username and password on the Security tab. </listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to create your server. </listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Linked Server dialog box. </listitem>
<listitem> Locate your newly created Linked Server. </listitem>
<listitem> Expand the new Linked Server&#39;s tree menu. </listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Tables</emphasis> icon. </listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <emphasis>qabasics</emphasis> table in the tables list. </listitem>
<listitem> Carefully record the Schema and Catalog associated with the table.
 For example — <programlisting>NAME       SCHEMA   CATALOG   TYPE
qabasics   dbo      master    User
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Expand the Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager&#39;s <emphasis>Tools</emphasis> menu. </listitem>
<listitem> Select the Microsoft SQL Server <emphasis>Query Analyzer</emphasis>. </listitem>
<listitem> Build your query with four-part naming, along these lines: <programlisting>SELECT * FROM [your linked server name].[catalog].[schema].qabasics 
</programlisting>For example: <programlisting>SELECT * FROM SQL2KLA.master.dbo.qabasics 
</programlisting>Note: Leave blanks as place holders when your target database lacks CATALOG or SCHEMA information.
 For example: <programlisting>SELECT * FROM ORA9iLA..SCOTT.qabasics 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>  Click the green arrow icon to run your query.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>