<docbook><section><title>ConfigureMulti-TierToUseTableview</title><para> The following instructions will enable you to configure Multi-Tier Data Sources for tableview connectivity:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open your Session Rulebook.
 The default Rulebook is the <emphasis><computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput></emphasis> file found in the /bin sub-directory of your server&#39;s OpenLink installation.
 For example: <programlisting>vi /usr/lpp/openlink/bin/oplrqb.ini
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <emphasis><computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESSXXX]</computeroutput></emphasis> section which corresponds to your DSN&#39;s <emphasis><computeroutput>Domain</computeroutput></emphasis> or <emphasis><computeroutput>Server Type</computeroutput></emphasis>.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Set the Tableview attribute to the full path to your tableview.dat file.
 Ensure that there is no semicolon (&quot;;&quot;) in front of the Tableview attribute name.
 For example: <programlisting>Tableview = /usr/lpp/openlink/bin/tableview.dat
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Edit your client DSN.
</listitem>
<listitem> Remove any existing value from from the <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> field in your DSN.
</listitem>
<listitem> Remove any existing value from the <emphasis><computeroutput>DB Connect Options</computeroutput></emphasis> field.
</listitem>
<listitem> Pass <computeroutput>-pf /full/path/to/your/tableview.pf</computeroutput> file in the <emphasis><computeroutput>DB Connect Options</computeroutput></emphasis> field.
 For example: <programlisting>-pf /usr/lpp/openlink/bin/tableview.pf
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>