<docbook><section><title>ConfigureSQLNamedInstancss</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure MS SQL Server Named Instance Support </bridgehead>
<para>Use the following steps to configure Microsoft SQL Server Named Instance support.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Single-Tier (Lite) Drivers - Mac &amp; Windows </bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Log in to the machine that hosts OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier (Lite Drivers).</para><para>2.
 Launch your ODBC or iODBC Data Sources Administrator.</para><para>3.
 Locate your OpenLink DSN.</para><para>4.
 Click the Configure button.</para><para>5.
 Scroll through the configuration screens until you find the Server Name field.</para><para>6.
 Click the Advanced button that appears under the Server Name field.</para><para>7.
 Locate the Server Name field that appears on the Advanced dialog.</para><para>8.
 Pass ServerName\InstanceName in this field.
 For example:</para><para>NKHATAM\SQLSERVER</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Single-Tier (Lite) Drivers - Unix</bridgehead>
<para> 1.
 Login to the machine that hosts OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier client drivers.</para><para>2.
 Use the Web-based iODBC Data Sources Administrator to access your DSN.</para><para>3.
 Locate the Connection Options field of your DSN.</para><para>4.
 Locate the Connection Options field.</para><para>5.
 Pass -S ServerName\InstanceName in this field.
 For example:</para><para>-S NKHATAM\SQLSERVER</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Multi-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Login to the machine that hosts OpenLink&#39;s Multi-Tier client drivers.</para><para>2.
 Use the relevant Data Sources Administrator or Web-Based Admin Assistant to access your DSN.</para><para>3.
 Locate the Connection Options field of your DSN.</para><para>4.
 Pass -S ServerName\InstanceName in this field.
 For example:</para><para>-S NKHATAM\SQLSERVER </para></section></docbook>