<docbook><section><title>ConfigDTSMSDASQL</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Data Migration &amp; Integration Configuration </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configure MIcrosoft SQL Server DTS Import using the Microsoft OLE DB Provider</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to configure a DTS Import.
</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <emphasis>Console Root</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Servers</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>SQL Server Group</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Your Actual SQL Server</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> folder.
</listitem>
<listitem> Right click on <emphasis>Linked Servers</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;<emphasis>New Linked Server</emphasis>.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Supply the following information on your General tab: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Linked Server</emphasis>: Any descriptive name (no spaces) </listitem>
<listitem> (Check the &quot;<emphasis>Other Data Source</emphasis>&quot; radio button) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Provider Name</emphasis>: <emphasis><computeroutput>Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Product Name</emphasis>: <emphasis><computeroutput>MSDASQL</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Data Source</emphasis>: Your ODBC Data Source Name </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Do not check any server options on the bottom of the tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Provide your Data Source username and password on the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to create your server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Linked Server dialog box.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate your newly created Linked Server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the new Linked Server&#39;s tree menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Tables</emphasis> icon.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <emphasis><computeroutput>qabasics</computeroutput></emphasis> table in the tables list.
</listitem>
<listitem> Carefully record the Schema and Catalog associated with the table.
 For example: <programlisting>Name       Schema   Catalog   Type
qabasics   dbo      master    User
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Expand the Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager&#39;s <emphasis>Tools</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select the Microsoft SQL Server <emphasis>Query Analyzer</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Build your query using the following guidelines: <programlisting>select * from [your linked server name].[catalog].[schema].qabasics 
</programlisting>For example: <programlisting>select * from SQL2KLA.master.dbo.qabasics 
</programlisting>Note: Leave blanks in place holders when database lacks catalog or schema information.
 For example: <programlisting>select * from ORA9iLA..SCOTT.qabasics 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem>  Click the green arrow icon to run your query.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>