<docbook><section><title>ConfigLinkedServers2005MSDASQL</title><title> Configuring Linked Servers in Microsoft SQL Server 2005-2012, using the Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers </title> Configuring Linked Servers in Microsoft SQL Server 2005-2012, using the Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers 
<para>The following steps are appropriate (with minimal adjustment) for Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and later.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the machine that hosts the Microsoft SQL Server 2005 instance.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the <emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu, drill down to <emphasis>Programs</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server 2005</emphasis> (or similar) -&gt; <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate your Microsoft SQL Server instance, and drill down to <emphasis>Server Objects</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Linked Servers</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Right-click on <emphasis>Linked Servers</emphasis>, and select <emphasis>New Linked Server</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Supply the following information on the <emphasis>General</emphasis> tab: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Linked Server:</emphasis> <emphasis>Any name you like</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> (Check <emphasis>Other Data Source</emphasis>) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Provider Name:</emphasis> Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Product Name:</emphasis> MSDASQL </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Data Source:</emphasis> <emphasis>Valid ODBC DSN Name</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> OpenLink ODBC DSNs do not store username and password data, so these should be set in the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> tab, below.</emphasis> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> This is the minimum information which you must supply.
 <emphasis>Provider Name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Product Name</emphasis> must be exactly as shown above.
 Feel free to engage any server options on the bottom of the tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> If your ODBC Data Sources requires Username and Password authentication, click to the <emphasis>Security</emphasis> tab and review your options.
 This is the only way to provide user credentials to the ODBC connection.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to create your server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Linked Server dialog box, and the Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the <emphasis>Microsoft SQL Server Query Analyzer</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run a query similar to the following, to test your Linked Server: <programlisting>select * from OPENQUERY (Your_LINKEDSERVER_Name, &#39;your SQL query here&#39;)
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>