<docbook><section><title>ConfigureProgressIsolationLevels</title><para> </para><title> Setting Transaction Isolation Levels for connections to Progress/OpenEdge </title> Setting Transaction Isolation Levels for connections to Progress/OpenEdge 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Enterprise Edition Multi-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the Broker host.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the active Rulebook (default is <computeroutput>/&lt;...OpenLink Installation...&gt;/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the relevant <computeroutput>Environment</computeroutput> section, e.g., <computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESS110SQL]</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESS100SQL]</computeroutput>, or <computeroutput>[Environment PROGRESS91SQL]</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the following keyword to the existing list of parameters: <programlisting>DEFAULT_TXN_ISOLATION 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Set your desired transaction isolation level.
 The options are: <programlisting>READ_UNCOMMITTED
READ_COMMITTED
REPEATABLE_READ
SERIALIZABLE
</programlisting>For instance: <programlisting>DEFAULT_TXN_ISOLATION = READ_UNCOMMITTED
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker service to activate the change.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Lite Edition Single-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the machine hosting the driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> Launch the ODBC Administrator.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate &amp; highlight your Data Source Name.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Configure.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <emphasis>Default Transaction Isolation</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select your desired isolation level.
</listitem>
<listitem> Save the changes to your DSN.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>