<docbook><section><title>ConnectionAttributes</title><para> </para><title> Multi-Tier Connection Attributes </title> Multi-Tier Connection Attributes 
<para>There are two types of Multi-Tier Connection Attributes: &quot;User-Configurable&quot; and &quot;Non-User-Configurable&quot;.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">User-Configurable Connection Attributes</bridgehead>
<para>User-Configurable attributes are set in various ways, depending on the connection mechanism.</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> ODBC: in the ODBC DSN, typically through the ODBC Administrator, or the ODBC Connect String </listitem>
<listitem> JDBC: in the JDBC URL, or, with JDBC 2.0 or later, the JDBC DSN </listitem>
<listitem> ADO.NET: in the Connection String</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para><emphasis>Domain Attribute</emphasis> Identifies the Multi-Tier Agent to which all the Multi-Tier Connection Attributes will apply.</para><para>This attribute describes a logical reference for a database type, Multi-Tier agent type, or anything else you would like to use as a logical identifier for all the other Multi-Tier Connection Attributes.</para><para>This attribute is also referred to as the &quot;Server Type&quot; or &quot;SVT&quot; attribute of a Multi-Tier Generic Client connect string.
 It is also referred to in older product documentation as the Multi-Tier &quot;Provider Type&quot;.</para><para><emphasis>User Attribute</emphasis> Identifies the User making use of a Multi-Tier Generic Client.</para><para><emphasis>Database Attribute</emphasis> Identifies a specific database name (a/k/a &quot;schema&quot; or &quot;catalog&quot;) within a database environment (e.g., <computeroutput>ORCL</computeroutput> for Oracle, <computeroutput>stores7</computeroutput> for Informix, <computeroutput>pubs</computeroutput> with Sybase or Microsoft SQL Server, <computeroutput>iSports</computeroutput> for Progress).
 The values associated with this Connection Attribute aren&#39;t overridden by Aliases; however, they may be overridden by the &quot;Database&quot; attribute within an Agent Configuration template.</para><para><emphasis>ServerOpts (Database Server Environment Options) Attribute</emphasis> Identifies a set of database environment initialization parameters, currently this attribute only applies to Progress environments.
 It is used to set self-serving client initialization parameters such as: <computeroutput>-TB</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-TB</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-q</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-D mdy</computeroutput>, etc.
 The values associated with this Connection Attribute aren&#39;t overridden by Aliases; instead, they are overridden by the <computeroutput>ServerOptions</computeroutput> attribute within an Agent Configuration template.</para><para><emphasis>ConnectOpts (Database Server Connection Options) Attribute</emphasis> Identifies a set of database server connection parameters used to initiate a connection with a backend database server process.
 This is how a Multi-Tier Database Agent makes a connection with a back-end database server using a particular database vendors networking middleware (e.g., Net8 or SQL*Net for Oracle, I-Connect or I-Net for Informix, Progress Client Networking for Progress, Open Client for Sybase).
 The values associated with this Connection Attribute aren&#39;t overridden by Aliases, instead they are overridden by the <computeroutput>ConnectOptions</computeroutput> attribute within an Agent Configuration template.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Non-User-Configurable Connection Attributes</bridgehead>
<para>These attributes are environmental in nature, and are derived automatically by a Multi-Tier Generic Client.</para><para><emphasis>OpSys (Operating System) attribute</emphasis> Identifies the Client operating system from which the Multi-Tier Generic Client is being executed.
Machine attribute</para><para><emphasis>Host attribute</emphasis> Identifies the Network Alias or IP address of the machine or device from the Multi-Tier Client is being executed.</para><para><emphasis>Application attribute</emphasis> Identifies the Client Application from which the connection originates.<emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> The Application name can be set by an application using an ODBC API call, <computeroutput>SQLSetConnectOption(hdbc, SQL_APPLICATION_NAME, &quot;AppName&quot;)</computeroutput>.
 The JDBC equivalent can also be used.</emphasis></para>
<para><emphasis>Mode attribute</emphasis> Identifies the session Mode required by an Multi-Tier Client, this may be Read-Only or Read-Write.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>