<docbook><section><title>CouldNotLoadTranslatorOrSetupLibrary</title><para> </para><title>Error Message -- Could Not Load Translator or Setup Library</title>Error Message -- <computeroutput>Could Not Load Translator or Setup Library</computeroutput>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">PRB: Error Message: &quot;Could Not Load Translator or Setup Library&quot;</bridgehead>
<para>The information in this article applies to: </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Microsoft Data Access Components 2.0 </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft Data Access Components 2.1 </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft Data Access Components 2.5</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>This article was previously published under Q260558</para><para>IMPORTANT: This article contains information about modifying the registry.
 Before you modify the registry, make sure to back it up and make sure that you understand how to restore the registry if a problem occurs.
 For information about how to back up, restore, and edit the registry, click the following article number to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:</para><para>256986 Description of the Microsoft Windows Registry</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">SYMPTOMS</bridgehead>
<para>When you install any software that tries to change the ODBC configuration or install ODBC components, such as Microsoft Data Access Components, service packs, or Microsoft Access, or you configure an ODBC data source through the ODBC Administrator, the following error message appears:</para><blockquote>Could not load translator or setup library.</blockquote>
<para>This messages may be accompanied by one of the following error messages:</para><blockquote>Unable to configure ODBC driver <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:driver.</span></blockquote>
<blockquote>The setup routines for the <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:driver could not be loaded due to system error code 126.</span></blockquote>
<blockquote>Driver could not be loaded due to system error code 1157.</blockquote>
<para> These message may include a driver name, such as &quot;Microsoft Access Driver {*.mdb}&quot;</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">CAUSE</bridgehead>
<para>There are two possible causes for this problem:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Incorrect registry settings for MDAC components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Incompatible .dll files.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>These problems may have arisen because of an installation of older software that changed the registry settings of the ODBC drivers or replaced some <computeroutput>.dll</computeroutput> files with incompatible versions.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">RESOLUTION</bridgehead>
<para>WARNING: If you use Registry Editor incorrectly, you may cause serious problems that may require you to reinstall your operating system.
 Microsoft cannot guarantee that you can solve problems that result from using Registry Editor incorrectly.
 Use Registry Editor at your own risk.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Resolution for incorrect registry settings problem:</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Start Registry Editor (<computeroutput>Regedit32.exe</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the following key in the registry: <programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\ODBCINST.INI
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Installation information for ODBC drivers is stored in this key.
 Make sure that all the required ODBC driver files are in the correct folder as described by the registry keys.
 For example, assume that you have the following information in your registry for the Microsoft Access ODBC driver: <programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\ODBCINST.INI\Microsoft Access Driver (*.mdb)

Driver = C:\WINNT\System\Odbcjt32.dll
Setup = C:\WINNT\System\Odbcjt32.dll
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> This will cause an error if the <computeroutput>Odbcjt32.dll</computeroutput> file is in the <computeroutput>C:\WINNT\System32</computeroutput> folder.
 You can modify the registry key values to <computeroutput>C:\WINNT\System32\odbcjt32.dll</computeroutput> to solve this problem.
 Also verify that the <computeroutput>Odbcinst.ini</computeroutput> file has the correct entries in the same way.</listitem>
</orderedlist><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Any wrong value in <computeroutput>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\ODBCINST.INI</computeroutput> under the Setup key will cause this error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Resolution for incompatible <computeroutput>.dll</computeroutput> files problem:</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Reinstall your current version of MDAC, or install the latest version.
 See the &quot;References&quot; section of this article for more information on reconfiguring an MDAC installation.
 The latest version of MDAC can be downloaded from the following Microsoft Web site: <ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/data">http://www.microsoft.com/data</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">REFERENCES</bridgehead>
<para>For additional information, click the article numbers below to view the articles in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> 307255 INFO: Component Checker: Diagnose and Reconfigure MDAC Installations</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> 232060 HOWTO: MDAC Setup Troubleshooting Guide</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> 243069 INFO: List of Useful MDAC Setup Related Articles</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>