<docbook><section><title>CouldNotConnectToServerForDatabase</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (C)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Could not connect to server for database <computeroutput>&lt;database&gt;</computeroutput>, errno 0.
 (1432)</bridgehead>
<para> The &quot;Could not connect to server for database x, errno 0.
 (1432)&quot; is a Progress-specific database error.
 To resolve this error, establish a socket-based connection to your Progress database.
 The following instructions will assist you with this task:</para><para>1.
 Insure that your Progress database is running in sockets mode.</para><para>2.
 Use a text editor to open your server&#39;s /etc/services or C:\WINNT\System32\Drivers\etc file.</para><para>3.
 Locate and record your Progress socket service entry.
 For instance:</para><programlisting>pro91b 6794/tcp # Progress Socket Service
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Use a text editor to open your client&#39;s /etc/services or C:\WINNT\System32\Drivers\etc file.</para><para>5.
 Insure that no client service uses the same TCP port number that your server uses for the Progress socket service.
 For example:</para><programlisting>ingreslock 6794/tcp ingres
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Reassign any conflicting TCP ports, as appropriate.</para><para>7.
 Create an entry in the client services file, which matches your server socket service entry.
 For example:</para><programlisting>pro91b 6794/tcp # Progress Socket Service
</programlisting><para> 8.
 Save your changes and exit the services file.</para><para>9.
 Pass your Progress socket parameters in the Database Options field (Single-Tier) or DB Connection Options field (Multi-Tier) of your Data Source.
 For example:</para><para>-S pro91b -N tcp -H example.domain.com</para><para>10.
 Insure that your database parameter ends with a .db extension.
 For example:</para><para>-db /usr/lpp/progress/dbs/sports.db</para><para>11.
 Test.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Data Source Attributes Request Broker Log Services File Session Rules Book</para></section></docbook>