<docbook><section><title>CreateCustomRelinkScripts</title><para> </para><title> Creating Custom Relink Scripts for Drivers and Agents for Progress/OpenEdge </title> Creating Custom Relink Scripts for Drivers and Agents for Progress/OpenEdge 
<para>Custom relink scripts may be needed when our standard scripts are incompatible with your database installation and/or environment.
 The Progress <emphasis>probuild</emphasis> utility enables you to create such custom scripts.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Locate the <emphasis>buildenv</emphasis> script, typically found in the $DLC/probuild/eucapp directory.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that the environment variable settings in the buildenv script are accurate for your system.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set and export <programlisting>PROLOAD=$DLC/probuild
export PROLOAD
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Type the following command at your command line: <programlisting>$PROLOAD/eucapp/probuild 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> At the <emphasis>Install Link Script Into</emphasis> prompt, enter the full path to your <emphasis><computeroutput>~/openlink/bin</computeroutput></emphasis> directory.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Continue</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>ESQL/C Large Client Full</emphasis> from the product list.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Continue</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Give your relink script an appropriate name.
 For example: <programlisting>ldpro7
ldpro8
ldpro9
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Give the executable to be produced an OpenLink-style Database Agent name.
 For example: <programlisting>pro73e_sv
pro83b_sv
pro91b_sv 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Continue</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Do not specify any special configurable elements.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Continue</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the database agent object code in the <computeroutput>/lib</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.
 Object code files are named similarly to <computeroutput>pro7_sv.o</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>pro8_sv.o</computeroutput>, and <computeroutput>pro9_sv.o</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Enter the full path to the relevant Database Agent object code (<computeroutput>proxxx_sv.o</computeroutput>) under &quot;Object Files.&#39; </listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Continue</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit <computeroutput>probuild</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Repeat the <ulink url="RelinkMulti-TierDatabaseAgents">relink process</ulink> with your new relink script.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>