<docbook><section><title>CreateOracleNetServiceNameUnix</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Create an Oracle Net Service Name (Unix)</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to create a Net Service Name in the local $ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/listener.ora file on Unix and Linux operating systems:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains the Oracle client software.</para><para>2.
 su to your oracle user.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>su - oracle</computeroutput></para><para> 3.
 Execute the .profile associated with the oracle user.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>. ./.profile</computeroutput></para><para> 4.
 cd into the $ORACLE_HOME/bin directory.</para><para> <computeroutput>cd $ORACLE_HOME/bin</computeroutput></para><para> 5.
 Run the netca program.</para><para> <computeroutput>./netca</computeroutput></para><para> 6.
 Wait for the Welcome page to appear.</para><para>7.
 Select &quot;Local Net Service Name Configuration.&quot;</para><para>8.
 Choose Next.</para><para>9.
 Choose Add.</para><para>10.
 Choose Next.</para><para>11.
 Wait for the  Net Service Name Configuration Database Version page to appear.</para><para>12.
 Choose &quot;Oracle 8i or later database or service&quot; to connect to an Oracle 8i or newer SID.
 Otherwise, select the Oracle 8.0 option.</para><para>13.
 Choose Next.</para><para>14.
 Wait for the The Net Service Name Configuration screen appears.</para><para>15.
 Enter the Oracle SID.</para><para>16.
 Choose Next.</para><para>17.
 Wait for the Select Protocols page to appear.</para><para>18.
 Select the TCP protocol.</para><para>19.
 Choose Next.</para><para>20.
 Wait for the Test page to appear.</para><para>21.
 Choose &quot;Yes perform a test.&quot;</para><para>22.
 Choose Next after confirmation of a successful connection.</para><para>23.
 Provide a meaningful name for your Oracle Net Service Name.
 For example:</para><para> <computeroutput>MyOracle10g64</computeroutput></para><para> 23.
 Wait for the appearance of the Another Net Service Name page.</para><para>24.
 Choose No.</para><para>25.
 Choose Next.</para><para>26.
 Wait for the Done page to appear.</para><para>27.
 Choose Next.</para><para>28.
 Choose Finish.</para><para>29.
 Type the following command on the command line:</para><para> <computeroutput>sqlplus</computeroutput></para><para>30.
 Use the following command to connect to the target Oracle sid:</para><para>  <computeroutput>CONNECT username/password@your oracle net service name</computeroutput></para><para> For example:<computeroutput>CONNECT scott/tiger@MyOracle10g64</computeroutput> </para></section></docbook>