<docbook><section><title>CustomizeYourMulti-TierSecurity</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Customize Your Multi-Tier Security</bridgehead>
<para>The following instructions will enable you to provide greater security for your database:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> List all Domain aliases (aka &quot;ServerTypes&quot;) used in your client-side DSNs.
 For example: <programlisting>Oracle 8.0.x
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file which resides in the <computeroutput>/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate <computeroutput>[Domain Aliases]</computeroutput> and determine how those listed above are resolved.
 For example: <programlisting>[Domain Aliases]
Oracle 8.0.x = ora80
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Locate the resolved names of the Domain Aliases under <computeroutput>[Mapping Rules]</computeroutput>.
 For instance: <programlisting>[Mapping Rules]
ora80:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_ora80. 
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Determine whether any of these fields need added security.
 Here is a breakdown: <programlisting>domain_name:database:user:client_os:machine_id:app_name:operation_mode
</programlisting>(<emphasis>Note:</emphasis> &quot;operation_mode&quot; refers to read-only (ro) or read-and-write (rw) access.) </listitem>
<listitem> Build rules to govern whether connection requests will be accepted or rejected by the Broker.
 For instance: <programlisting>ora80:*:scott:*:*:*:* = reject User &quot;scott&quot; is not allowed to connect to this service.
</programlisting>This rule rejects all connection attempts made by user scott, and tells them so.
 You can substitute any plain-text rejection message here, and it will be delivered to users who are blocked by this rule.
</listitem>
<listitem> Order each rule properly.
 For example: <programlisting>ora80:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_ora80                     
ora80:*:*:*:*:msaccess:* = reject Microsoft Access is not allowed to connect to this service.        
</programlisting>The first rule permits access to generic_ora80 in all scenarios.
 The second rule is never visited, since the preceding rule permits all ora80 requests.
<programlisting>ora80:*:*:*:*:msaccess:* = reject Microsoft Access is not allowed to connect to this service.
ora80:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_ora80                     
</programlisting>The first rule screens for and rejects connections requested by Microsoft Access.
 Connections not originating with Microsoft Access are passed on to the second rule, which permits all requests.
</listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart your Broker.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>