<docbook><section><title>DataSourceNameNotFoundAndNoDefaultDriverSpecified</title><para> </para><title>Data Source Name Not Found and No Default Driver Specified</title>Data Source Name Not Found and No Default Driver Specified
<para>The &quot;database name not found and no default driver specified&quot; error message most commonly occurs when OpenLink and/or ODBC environment variables were not set before the error-reporting application was launched.
 It may also be seen (typically on Windows or Mac) when a System-level service is told to use a User DSN.
 If you receive this error, take the following action: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> If using a System-level service (e.g., DG4ODBC, HSODBC, PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby, etc.) on Mac or Windows, confirm that your target is a System DSN, not a User DSN.
</listitem>
<listitem> cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client components installation.
 For example: <programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Run the command which corresponds to your Unix shell -- 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> bash, sh, zsh </entry><entry>  <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki. ./openlink.sh</span> </entry></row>
<row><entry> ksh </entry><entry>  <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikisource ./openlink.sh</span> </entry></row>
<row><entry> csh, tcsh </entry><entry>  <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikisource ./openlink.csh</span>  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that <computeroutput>$ODBCINI</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>$ODBCINSTINI</computeroutput>, and <computeroutput>$UDBCINI</computeroutput> are set.
 For example: <programlisting>$ set
SHLIB_PATH=:/home/openlink/32bit/lib
TERM=vt100
TMOUT=0
TZ=EST5EDT
UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/bin/udbc.ini
</programlisting><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If your variables are not set, use a text editor to open the openlink.sh or openlink.csh script.
 Take note of the environment variables.
 Then, try to set them on the command line.
 For example: <programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink
$ vi openlink.sh
UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/udbc.ini
ODBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbc.ini
ODBCINSTINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbcinst.ini
:q!
$ export UDBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/udbc.ini
$ export ODBCINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbc.ini
$ export ODBCINSTINI=/home/openlink/32bit/v40/bin/odbcinst.ini
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Stop and start your ODBC application(s) and test to see whether the issue has been resolved.
</listitem>
<listitem> If the problem persists, open your <computeroutput>odbc.ini</computeroutput> file in a text editor.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Confirm that your DSN&#39;s <computeroutput>Driver</computeroutput> parameter passes the correct path to your OpenLink driver (e.g., <computeroutput>oplodbc.so</computeroutput>).
 For example: <programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver = /home/openlink/32bit/v40/lib/oplodbc.sl.1
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Likewise, confirm that the <computeroutput>[Default]:Driver</computeroutput> parameter passes the full path to the OpenLink driver.
 This is especially important if your ODBC connect string uses connection attributes rather than a pre-defined DSN.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <computeroutput>odbc.ini</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>odbcinst.ini</computeroutput> files </listitem>
<listitem> output of <computeroutput>set</computeroutput></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>