<docbook><section><title>DB-LibraryLoginIncorrect</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (D)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">DB-Library: Login incorrect</bridgehead>
<para>If you are receiving &quot;DB-Library: Login incorrect&quot; errors with the SQL Server Single-Tier driver--and you are sure the username and password are correct--take the following actions:</para><para>1.
 Open the SQL Server Server Network Utility.</para><para>2.
 Select the appropriate SQL Server database instance from the drop-down menu.</para><para>3.
 Highlight &quot;TCP/IP&quot; in the &quot;Enabled protocols&quot; box.</para><para>4.
 Click on &quot;Properties&quot;.</para><para>5.
 A dialog box with a &quot;Default Port&quot; field will appear.
 Please record the value in the &quot;Default Port&quot; field.</para><para>6.
 Pass the recorded value to the TDSPORT field of your [Environment SQL Server XXXX] section of your client-side openlink.ini file.</para><para>7.
 Save the changes to openlink.ini and retest.</para><para>Note: TDSPORT is used by OpenLink&#39;s TDS-based SQL Server drivers.
 If you do not have OpenLink&#39;s TDS-based drivers, download the drivers or contact OpenLink Product Support for additional information.
</para></section></docbook>