<docbook><section><title>DbNavigatorDoesNotReturnSQLServerTables</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Application Specific Problems</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">dbNavigator Does Not Return SQL Server Tables
</bridgehead>
<para>Visual Café&#39;s dbNavigator does not return SQL Server tables, if you use it with OpenLink&#39;s 3.x and 1.x drivers.
 To resolve this problem, download the latest OpenLink drivers.
 If the problem persists, take the following action:<para>1.
 Access the machine, which contains your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Open your ODBC Data Sources utility.
 (Control Panel)</para><para>3.
 Click on the System tab.</para><para>4.
 Click Add.</para><para>5.
 Select Microsoft&#39;s native SQL Server driver.</para><para>6.
 Click Finish.</para><para>7.
 Complete your new SQL Server data source.</para><para>8.
 Access your client machine.</para><para>9.
 Open your ODBC Data Sources utility.
 (Control Panel)</para><para>10.
 Click on the System tab.</para><para>11.
 Click Add.</para><para>12.
 Select OpenLink&#39;s Generic 32Bit driver.</para><para>13.
 Click Finish.</para><para>14.
 Pass the following values in your OpenLink Data Source:</para></para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Name: Any descriptive name </listitem>
<listitem> Domain: Odbc </listitem>
<listitem> Hostname: Name or IP address of machine with <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Broker </listitem>
<listitem> Port: Port on which the Request Broker listens.
 (5000 is the default.) </listitem>
<listitem> Database: Exact name of native SQL Server data source </listitem>
<listitem> Username: SQL Server uid, if required </listitem>
<listitem> Server: Blank</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>15.
 Test.
</para></section></docbook>