<docbook><section><title>ErrorWhileTryingToRetrieveText1</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (E)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Error while trying to retrieve text for error ORA-?????, TNS-?????</bridgehead>
<para>The Oracle `OCI Client` for Mac OS X is available, but must be downloaded directly from Oracle.
 Please note that the entire OCI Client installation is not necessary for ODBC connectivity.</para><para>OpenLink bundles the only necessary library, libclntsh.dylib, from the Oracle OCI Client, into our installation of the OpenLink Lite driver for Oracle on Mac OS X.</para><para>The Oracle Lite driver does require the user to specify the Oracle Home Directory (also known as ORACLE_HOME, or OraHome) in each DSN; it then looks within this directory for a group-writeable file, $ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/tnsnames.ora.
 If this file does not exist, or is not group-writeable, the driver will fail to function as desired.</para><para>OpenLink&#39;s general recommendation is to execute the following commands in a Terminal session -</para><programlisting>    
mkdir -p /Library/ODBC/Oracle/network/admin
touch
/Library/ODBC/Oracle/network/admin/tnsnames.ora
chmod -R 775 /Library/ODBC/Oracle
        
</programlisting><para> Users may also choose to add the entire OCI Client to their machine, if they prefer to receive full-text errors rather than just the `TNS-12345` style errors, which are delivered by this single library.
 The necessary installer may be downloaded from Oracle, via the following link (note - this will require one to register with Oracle&#39;s TechNet).</para><para> </para><programlisting>    
OCI 8 Client for Mac OS X (approx 6 MB)
          
http://download.oracle.com/otn/utilities_drivers/jdbc/8171/</programlisting><para>MacOSX_8171.cpio
        
 These components may be installed anywhere on the boot volume.
 Oracle has a recommended location, or one may use their own preferred location.
 The directory which is thereafter known as ORACLE_HOME should be specified in all Oracle Lite DSNs, and the TNS Names file referenced by the OpenLink drivers should reside at $ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/tnsnames.ora.</para><para>Installation instructions are shown on the download page for the OCI Client.
 They currently indicate the wrong cpio filename; this has been corrected in the instructions which follow.</para><para>OpenLink recommends first creating a directory, /Library/ODBC/Oracle/, and placing the <ulink url="MacOSX">MacOSX</ulink>_8171.cpio file therein.
 Then execute these commands to shift to the bash shell, and unpack the cpio file -</para><para> </para><programlisting>    
bash
cpio -idvmc &lt; MacOSX_8171.cpio
        
</programlisting><para> The user will observe output similar to that below, and the listed zip files will now be found in /Library/ODBC/Oracle/ (or whatever location was chosen above) -</para><para> </para><programlisting>    
bash-2.05a$ cpio -idvmc &lt; MacOSX_8171.cpio
./MacOSX_8.1.7.1_OCI_Demo.zip
./Oracle_8.1.7.1_Client.zip
./Release_Notes.zip
1176 blocks
bash-2.05a$
        
</programlisting><para> The following instructions are adapted from the contents of the Release_Notes.zip.</para><para>Installation Instructions</para><para> The following procedures provide the instructions to install the Oracle8i Client software.
 The examples shown assume that the directory used is /Library/ODBC/Oracle and commands are entered in the bash shell.</para><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Copy the Oracle_8.1.7.1_Client.zipfile to a directory on the local disk drive.
 For example,</listitem>
</itemizedlist><programlisting>    
% cp Oracle_8.1.7.1_Client.zip
/Library/ODBC/Oracle
            
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Change to the directory designated in Step 1, and extract the contents of the zip file.
 Several new directories will be created as a result of the extraction process.
 For example:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><programlisting>    
              % cd /Library/ODBC/Oracle
              % unzip Oracle_8.1.7.1_Client.zip
            
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Set theORACLE_HOME environment variable.
 For example,</listitem>
</itemizedlist><programlisting>    
              % export
              ORACLE_HOME=/Library/ODBC/Oracle/
            
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Users who are using the OpenLink driver for connectivity, and no other OCI-dependent products, may skip to Step 9.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Set theDYLD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to include the library location.
 For example, <programlisting>    
              % export
              DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/lib
            
</programlisting>   NOTE: User applications that are developed using Oracle Call Interface (OCI) must be linked with this shared client library.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Set theORA_NLS33environment variable to point to the$ORACLE_HOME/ocommon/nls/admin/datadirectory which contains the Oracle NLS message files.
 For example:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><programlisting>    
              % export
              ORA_NLS33=$ORACLE_HOME/ocommon/nls/admin/data
            
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Set theTNS_ADMINenvironment variable to point to the location of the tnsnames.ora network configuration file.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><programlisting>    
              % export
              TNS_ADMIN=$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin
            
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Modify thet nsnames.orafile to use the alias for an address that the listener is listening for a database from a remote host.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Replace net_service_name with the actual net service name of the remote database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Replace hostname with the actual remote host name.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Replace1521with the actual port number.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Replace oracle_sid with the Oracle8i database&#39;s service name.
 This is usually the global database name specified in the init.orafile on the remote server.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Launch the OpenLink ODBC Administrator (/Applications/Utilities/), and configure a DSN, by following the instructions in the OpenLink documentation.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Test.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>