<docbook><section><title>ExceededMaximumNumberOfAgentProcesses</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (E)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Exceeded maximum number of agent processes</bridgehead>
<para> If you receive &quot;Exceeded maximum number of agent processes&quot; error, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Access the machine which hosts your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which resides in the /bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation.</para><para>3.
 Locate the [Request Broker] section.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Request Broker]
BinaryDirectory = d:\openlink\mt40\bin
CommandLine =
Protocols = tcp
MaxAgents = 25
MaxConnections = 0
HostNameResolver = Yes
LingerTimeout = 0
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Locate the MaxAgents parameter.
 For example:</para><programlisting>MaxAgents = 25
</programlisting><para> 5.
 If you do not need a limit, use a semicolon to comment the parameter.
 For example:</para><programlisting>;MaxAgents = 25
</programlisting><para> 6.
 If you need to set the lime, raise the value which is currently passed to MaxAgents.
 For example:</para><programlisting>MaxAgents = 50
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>8.
 Restart or reinitialize your OpenLink Request Broker.</para><para>9.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log</para></section></docbook>