<docbook><section><title>ForUpdate</title><para> </para><title>FOR UPDATE</title>FOR UPDATE
<para>OpenLink Software has not implemented the non-standard &quot;FOR UPDATE&quot; cursor model.
 However, you can set the connection&#39;s transaction isolation level which may sufficiently serve the purpose.
 To proceed, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Create a new text file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Insert the command that your database uses to set its isolation level.
 For example: <programlisting>set isolation to dirty read
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save and exit your file.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">If using Multi-Tier drivers</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your Broker Rulebook (<computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>) in your favorite text editor.
 The Rulebook is typically found in the <computeroutput>/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[generic_xxxx]</computeroutput> section, which corresponds to your OpenLink Database Agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[generic_inf7]
Program = inf7_mv.exe
;CommandLine =
Environment = INFORMIX7
OpsysLogin = Yes
ReUse = always
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Remove any leading semicolon (;) from CommandLine.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add <computeroutput>+initsql isolation_command_filename</computeroutput> to the CommandLine value.
 For example: <programlisting>CommandLine = +initsql /path/to/inf73sv.sql
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Reinitialize or restart the Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">If using Single-Tier drivers</bridgehead>
<para>In the DSN Setup dialog, locate the <emphasis>Initial SQL</emphasis> setting, and put the full path to your text file there.</para><para>You can also manually edit the relevant DSN in odbc.ini or the Registry, and set the keyword <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikiInitSQL</span> to the same path.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Code Sample </listitem>
<listitem> ODBC Client Trace </listitem>
<listitem> Database Agent Version String </listitem>
<listitem> DBMS Version</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>