<docbook><section><title>GatheringEvidenceDataDefinitionsDump</title><para> </para><title> Gathering Additional Evidence: Dumping Progress/OpenEdge Data Definitions </title> Gathering Additional Evidence: Dumping Progress/<ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink> Data Definitions 
<para>The following instructions will enable you to dump the data definitions for your Progress tables.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Progress Servers on Unix-like OS </bridgehead>
<para> </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the server as the Progress administrative user.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run the progress user&#39;s <computeroutput>.profile</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Navigate to the <computeroutput>$DLC/bin</computeroutput> directory.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute the following command: <programlisting>_progres
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> If prompted, hit the space bar to continue.
</listitem>
<listitem> Practice navigating the interface.
 (Use F3 to navigate the menus.
 The down arrow keys expand menus.
 TAB jumps you around from subject to subject.) </listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Tools</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Data Dictionary</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Database</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Connect</emphasis> and input the path to your database.
 <emphasis>TAB</emphasis> will take you to &lt;files&gt; which allows you to browse the file system for your database.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Admin</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Dump Data &amp; Definitions</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Data Definitions</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select that table that you want to dump.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>F1</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate your new <computeroutput>.df</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> ZIP the file, and email the archive to <ulink url="mailto:technical.support@openlinksw.com">technical.support@openlinksw.com</ulink>, referencing your case ID in the subject header.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Progress Servers on Windows </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your <emphasis>Progress Data Administration</emphasis> utility.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Database</emphasis> drop-down menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Connect</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Specify the database to which you want to connect.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Admin</emphasis> drop-down menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Dump Data and Definitions</emphasis> &gt;&gt; <emphasis>Data Definitions</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Highlight the desired table.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Take note of the <emphasis>Output File</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Data Administration utility.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate your new <computeroutput>.df</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> ZIP the file, and email the archive to <ulink url="mailto:technical.support@openlinksw.com">technical.support@openlinksw.com</ulink>, referencing your case ID in the subject header.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>