<docbook><section><title>GeneratingRequestBrokerTraces</title><para> </para><title> Generating Server-side Multi-Tier Request Broker Trace Logs (All Platforms) </title> Generating Server-side Multi-Tier Request Broker Trace Logs (All Platforms) 
<para>The following instructions enable you to create a time-stamped, Request Broker Trace:</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Command Line Method (requires brief Broker shutdown) </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> As a user with full read/write/execute permissions on the server-side Multi-Tier installation, get to a command-line prompt on the Multi-Tier Broker host.
</listitem>
<listitem> Navigate to the /bin sub-directory of the Multi-Tier installation (e.g., /opt/openlink/bin/).
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute the following commands: <programlisting>. ../openlink.sh
./oplshut -fy
./oplrqb -dv
</programlisting><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> the Broker&#39;s output will take over this login session.
 Closing this session will terminate the Broker, but you may minimize the window, and use another Terminal/DOS session to execute additional command-line operations.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Recreate the error condition, by whatever means necessary.
</listitem>
<listitem> Return to the above login session, and issue cmd-C to terminate the Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Relaunch the Broker with your usual launch command, e.g., -- <programlisting>./oplrqb
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> The oplrqb.log in the /bin sub-directory of your Multi-Tier will contain a very detailed log of recent activity.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Web-based Admin Assistant (no Broker shutdown required) </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your Admin Assistant in a Web browser.
</listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <emphasis>Server Components Administration</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Request Broker Administration</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Edit Request Broker&#39;s Parameters (Wizard)</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Enter your Admin Assistant username &amp; password.
 (Both values default to &quot;<emphasis><computeroutput>admin</computeroutput></emphasis>&quot;.) </listitem>
<listitem> Advance one screen and set <emphasis>Log Detail</emphasis> to <emphasis>DEBUG.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Scroll through the screens to end.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Save</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Reinitialize OpenLink Request Broker.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Recreate the error condition.
</listitem>
<listitem> Retrieve the log and forward it to Product Support.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Related </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="UnderstandRequestBrokerLogLevels">Understanding Request Broker Log Levels</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="GeneratingClientsideODBCTracesAllDrivers">Generating Client-side ODBC Traces and Driver Debug Logs</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>