<docbook><section><title>GeneratingOpenLinkODBCScanTraceFiles</title><para> </para><title> Tracing ODBC Activity with OpenLink ODBC Scan </title> Tracing ODBC Activity with OpenLink ODBC Scan 
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Launch the <emphasis>OPLScan32 executable.
</emphasis></listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Query</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Connect.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Select your target DSN.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Provide authentication, as needed.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Trace</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Insure <emphasis>Time Each API</emphasis> is checked.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select <emphasis>Options.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Data Source</emphasis> icon.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use the Data Source folders to locate your Data Source.
</listitem>
<listitem> Highlight your Data Source.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Options</emphasis> icon.
</listitem>
<listitem> Insure <emphasis>Log to File</emphasis> is checked.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set a path for the log file, e.g., <computeroutput>C:\scan.log</computeroutput>, in the text box.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Trace</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Start.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Perform your query with your application.
</listitem>
<listitem> Check your target log file for the desired output.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>If your target log file is empty, try this:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Expand the <emphasis>Trace</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Options.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Process</emphasis> icon.
</listitem>
<listitem> Choose one of these two options: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Click <emphasis>Trace Log Against Process</emphasis> and pick the process from the list box </listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Trace Log Against Exe</emphasis> and pass the full path to your application executable </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>OK.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Trace</emphasis> menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Start.</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Repeat the query with your application.
</listitem>
<listitem> Check your target log file for the desired output.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>