<docbook><section><title>GeneratingConnectionLogs</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Generating Connection Logs</bridgehead>
<para>Use the following instructions to generate Multi-Tier connection logs.
 These logs are generally referred to as Request Broker log files.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Command Line Method (Requires Shutdown)</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open an MS-DOS command prompt or Unix terminal.
</listitem>
<listitem> cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <emphasis><computeroutput>oplshut -fy</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <emphasis><computeroutput>oplrqb +loglevel 7 +logfile oplrqb.log</computeroutput></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Recreate the error condition.
</listitem>
<listitem> Retrieve the log and forward it to Product Support.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Web-based Admin Assistant (No Shutdown Required)</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your Admin Assistant in a Web browser.
</listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;Server Components Administration.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;Request Broker Administration.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;Edit Request Broker&#39;s Parameters (Wizard).&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Enter your Admin Assistant username &amp; password.
 (Both values default to &quot;<emphasis><computeroutput>admin</computeroutput></emphasis>&quot;.) </listitem>
<listitem> Advance one screen and set &quot;Log Detail&quot; to &quot;DEBUG.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Scroll through the screens to end.
</listitem>
<listitem> Hit &quot;Save.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Click &quot;Reinitialize OpenLink Request Broker.&quot; </listitem>
<listitem> Recreate the error condition.
</listitem>
<listitem> Retrieve the log and forward it to Product Support.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>See Also: <ulink url="UnderstandRequestBrokerLogLevels">Request Broker Log Levels</ulink> </para></section></docbook>