<docbook><section><title>GlossaryEntryLogFile</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Glossary of Technical Terms</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="GlossaryEntriesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="GlossaryEntriesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Log File</bridgehead>
<para>[1] Log file is an abbreviation for Request Broker Log file.
 The Request Broker Log File captures events, which transpire each time you make a connection.</para><para>The Broker will write general error messages to ~/openlink/bin/oplrqb.log by default.
 However, if you want timestamped, comprehensive connection information, you must set your log level to DEBUG.
 You may set your level and path in a variety of ways:</para><para>A) You may use your commandline to pass the appropriate log level and log path at startup.</para><para>B) You may use the Administrative Assistant&#39;s Edit Request Broker&#39;s Parameters Form or Wizard.</para><para>C) You may right click the Request Broker entry in the Windows Services Utility.
 Next, select properties.
 Then, pass the log level and log path startup parameters.
 These parameters belong in the Startup Parameters box on Service&#39;s &quot;General&quot; tab.</para><para>[2] The Log File field appears in the Administrative Assistant&#39;s Edit Request Broker&#39;s Parameters Wizard and Form.
 This field takes the full path to the file to which you want to write connection-related messages.</para><para>See Also: +debug, +logfile, +loglevel, Log Detail </para></section></docbook>