<docbook><section><title>GlossaryEntryJDBCDATABASE</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">/DATABASE</bridgehead>
<para>/DATABASE is a Type 3 JDBC connection string parameter.
 It passes the logical name of the database to which you want to connect.</para><para>Example: /DATABASE</para><para>sports.db</para><para>Do not pass the full path to your database to the /DATABASE parameter.
 The forward slashes will cause confusion.
 Instead, pass the full path in your Session Rules Book.
 To proceed, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Open your oplrqb.ini file.
 You will find the file in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [generic_xxxxx] section that corresponds to your OpenLink database agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_pro82a]
Description   = Default settings for Progress 8.2A agent
Program       = pro82a_sv
Environment   = PROGRESS82A
ServerOptions = -T /tmp -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31 -q -NL 
Directory     = /tmp
ReUse         = never
;CommandLine    =
;ConnectOptions =
;Database       =
;Userid        =
;Password      =
;ReadOnly       = Yes
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Remove the semicolon (;) from Database<computeroutput>=</computeroutput>.</para><para>4.
 Pass the full path to your database to Database<computeroutput>=</computeroutput>.
 For example:</para><programlisting>
Database=/usr/lpp/progress/wrk/sports.db

</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save your changes and close the file.</para><para>6.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>7.
 Test.</para><para> See Also: JDBC, Type 3 </para></section></docbook>