<docbook><section><title>HostXIsNotAllowedToConnectToThisMySQLServer</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: Host &lt;hostname&gt; is not allowed to connect to this MySQL server </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Host &lt;hostname&gt; is not allowed to connect to this MySQL server</computeroutput> 
<para>When clients try to connect to MySQL, the server checks username and password <emphasis>and</emphasis> the originating host value against its permissions tables.</para><para>This error typically indicates that this username has not been granted appropriate permissions when connecting from this host.</para><para>You can fix this by using the command-line <computeroutput>mysql</computeroutput> tool (on the server host!) to GRANT permissions for the user/hostname combination from which you are trying to connect, and then executing <computeroutput>mysqladmin flush-privileges</computeroutput>.
  See <ulink url="http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/grant.html#grant-accounts-passwords">this section of MySQL documentation</ulink> for more details.</para><para>If you are running MySQL Version 3.23 or later and you don&#39;t know the IP address and/or hostname of the machine from which you are connecting, you can put a wildcard entry with &#39;<computeroutput>%</computeroutput>&#39; as the <computeroutput>Host</computeroutput> column value in the user table and restart <computeroutput>mysqld</computeroutput> with the <computeroutput>--log</computeroutput> option on the server machine.
 After trying to connect from the client machine, the information in the MySQL log will indicate the client host&#39;s IP address and/or hostname.
 <emphasis><emphasis>Important:</emphasis> you should then replace the &#39;<computeroutput>%</computeroutput>&#39; in the user table entry with the actual hostname that shows up in the log.
 Otherwise, you&#39;ll have a system that is insecure.</emphasis></para><para>A rare cause of this error on Linux is a MySQL binary that was compiled with a newer <computeroutput>glibc</computeroutput> version than is found on the current binary host.
 In this case, you should either upgrade your OS/glibc or download the source MySQL version and compile this yourself.
 A source RPM is normally trivial to compile and install, so this shouldn&#39;t be a big problem.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>