<docbook><section><title>HowCanIFindMyInformixTcpPortNumber</title><para> </para><title>Identify the Informix tcp port number </title>Identify the Informix tcp port number 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Unix Database Servers</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Unix database server as the Informix user.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that the Informix environment has been correctly set.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <programlisting>echo $INFORMIXSERVER
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <programlisting>more $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Look for the line that begins with your <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput> value, and note the value that appears in the fourth column.
 This is your service name.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <programlisting>more /etc/services
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Search the output for the line that beings with the service name you found in <computeroutput>$INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts</computeroutput>.
 Note the associated port number.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Windows Database Servers</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Windows database server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open an MS-DOS command prompt.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run this command: <programlisting>regedit
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\
   SOFTWARE\
      INFORMIX\
         SQLHOSTS
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Look for the value passed to Service.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Registry.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use Notepad to open the <computeroutput>C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\services</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>C:\WINNT\System32\Drivers\etc\services</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Look for the port number that corresponds to the service in the registry.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>