<docbook><section><title>HowCanITellIfInformixIsStartedInSocketsOrSharedMemory</title><para> </para><title>Identify the Informix startup mode (i.e., sockets or shared memory) </title>Identify the Informix startup mode (i.e., sockets or shared memory) 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Unix Database Servers</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Unix database server as the Informix user.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the Informix environment, if not automatically set by the login.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <programlisting>echo $INFORMIXSERVER
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Execute this command: <programlisting>cat $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Look for the line that begins with the <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput> value, and note the value that appears in the second column.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If this value is <computeroutput>onsoctcp</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>ontlitcp</computeroutput>, or anything else containing <computeroutput>tcp</computeroutput>, this <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput>  will accept sockets-based connections.
</listitem>
<listitem> If this value is <computeroutput>onipcshm</computeroutput>, or anything else containing <computeroutput>shm</computeroutput>, this <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput>  will not accept sockets-based connections; it will only accept shared-memory connections.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Windows Database Servers</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Login to your Windows database server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open an MS-DOS command prompt.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run this command: <programlisting>regedit
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\
   SOFTWARE\
      INFORMIX\
         SQLHOSTS
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Look for the value passed to <computeroutput>PROTOCOL</computeroutput>.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If this value is <computeroutput>onsoctcp</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>ontlitcp</computeroutput>, or anything else containing <computeroutput>tcp</computeroutput>, this <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput>  will accept sockets-based connections.
</listitem>
<listitem> If this value is <computeroutput>onipcshm</computeroutput>, or anything else containing <computeroutput>shm</computeroutput>, this <computeroutput>$INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput>  will not accept sockets-based connections; it will only accept shared-memory connections.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Ramifications </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Sockets-based (TCP/IP) connections are supported by Enterprise Edition, Lite Edition, and Express Edition, regardless of whether the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> components are running on the Informix host or elsewhere.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Shared-memory connections are supported only when our Enterprise Edition server-side components (Request Broker and Database Agent) or our Lite Edition client-side components are running on the Informix server host.
 Shared-memory connections are not supported by our Express Edition, nor by our Lite Edition when not running on the Informix server host.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>