<docbook><section><title>HowCanITellIfProgressIsRunningInSQL89OrSQL92Mode</title><para> </para><title>Identify the Progress SQL mode (i.e., SQL-89 or SQL-92) </title>Identify the Progress SQL mode (i.e., SQL-89 or SQL-92) 
<para>Progress 8.x and earlier can only run in SQL-89 mode.
 Progress OpenEdge 10.x and later can only run in SQL-92 mode.</para><para>Progress 9.x has a hybrid engine that can run in either SQL-89 or SQL-92 mode, or both.
 Use the following steps to learn which mode your Progress 9.x instance is running in.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Progress DBMS server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the database log file.
 Typically, the log file should have the same name as the database <computeroutput>.db</computeroutput> file, but with an <computeroutput>.lg</computeroutput> extension; e.g., the <computeroutput>sports92.db</computeroutput> file will typically have a corresponding <computeroutput>sports92.lg</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Make a copy of the database log file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the copy with a text editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the section corresponding to the most recent database startup.
</listitem>
<listitem> Look for a line similar to this: <programlisting>11:50:04 BROKER  0: This broker supports both 4GL and SQL server groups. (8865)
</programlisting>Reference to 4GL indicates SQL-89 mode.
 Reference to SQL indicates SQL-92 mode.
 Reference to both is referred to as &quot;mixed&quot; mode.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>