<docbook><section><title>HowCanIFindMyProgressDatabaseTcpSocketDefinition</title><para> </para><title> Discovering a Progress server&#39;s sockets definition </title> Discovering a Progress server&#39;s sockets definition 
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Progress DBMS server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the database log file.
 Typically, the log file should have the same name as the database <computeroutput>.db</computeroutput> file with a <computeroutput>.lg</computeroutput> extension; e.g., the <computeroutput>sports92.db</computeroutput> file will typically have a corresponding <computeroutput>sports92.lg</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Make a copy of the database log file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the copy with a text editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the section covering to the most recent database startup.
</listitem>
<listitem> Find the socket parameters.
 For example: <programlisting>1:50:04 BROKER  0: Host Name (-H): oplusaix3. (4261)
1:50:04 BROKER  0: Service Name (-S): pro91d. (4262)
1:50:04 BROKER  0: Network Type (-N): tcp. (4263)
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Record the value shown for Host Name.
 Some versions of Progress will only connect if your ODBC connection specifies exactly the same value -- i.e., <computeroutput>oplusaix3.example.com</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>192.168.123.234</computeroutput> will not work for the above instance, even if they all resolve to the same IP address; only <computeroutput>oplusaix3</computeroutput> will work.
</listitem>
<listitem> Record the value shown for Service Name.
 This is your database&#39;s socket service name or number.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the <computeroutput>.lg</computeroutput> file.
 The copy you made may safely be discarded.
</listitem>
<listitem> If you found a service name above, and not a port number, grep the local <computeroutput>/etc/services</computeroutput> file for the service name to identify the associated TCP port number.
 For example: <programlisting>% grep pro91d /etc/services
pro91d   8893/tcp
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Exit the file.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>