<docbook><section><title>HowCanITellIfProgressIsRunningInSocketsOrSharedMemory</title><para> </para><title> Identifying the Progress startup mode (i.e., sockets vs.
 shared memory) </title> Identifying the Progress startup mode (i.e., sockets vs.
 shared memory) 
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to your Progress DBMS server.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the database log file.
 Typically, the log file should have the same name as the database <computeroutput>.db</computeroutput> file with a <computeroutput>.lg</computeroutput> extension; e.g., the <computeroutput>sports92.db</computeroutput> file will typically have a corresponding <computeroutput>sports92.lg</computeroutput> file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Make a copy of the database log file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the copy with a text editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the section covering to the most recent database startup.
</listitem>
<listitem> Look for lines containing <emphasis><computeroutput>Host Name</computeroutput></emphasis>, <emphasis><computeroutput>Service Name</computeroutput></emphasis>, and <emphasis><computeroutput>Network Type</computeroutput></emphasis>.
 These are Progress sockets startup parameters.
 <computeroutput>Host Name</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>Service Name</computeroutput> should always be present.
 For example: <programlisting>1:50:04 BROKER  0: Host Name (-H): oplusaix3. (4261)
11:50:04 BROKER  0: Service Name (-S): pro91d. (4262)
11:50:04 BROKER  0: Network Type (-N): tcp. (4263)
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> The important entry for this question is <computeroutput>Network Type</computeroutput> -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If <computeroutput>Network Type</computeroutput> &quot;<computeroutput>tcp</computeroutput>&quot; is present, the database is running in <emphasis>sockets</emphasis> mode.
</listitem>
<listitem> If <computeroutput>Network Type</computeroutput> &quot;<computeroutput>tcp</computeroutput>&quot; is not present, the database is running in <emphasis>shared memory</emphasis> mode.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>