<docbook><section><title>HowDoICreateAJDBCType3URLToConnectToSybaseASA</title><para> How do I create a JDBC Type 3 URL to connect to Sybase ASA?    </para><para>Sybase Type 3 JDBC connection URLs take the following form:   </para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://&lt;Hostname&gt;:[portnumber] [/UID] [/PWD] [/READONLY] [/SVT]
		[/APPLICATION] [/FBS|FETCHBUFFERSIZE] [/ENCRYPTED] [/CHARSET] [/UNICODE]
		[/DLF] [/DATABASE] [/OPTIONS] [/DRIVER] 
</programlisting> Here is a description of each of the parameters:   	* Hostname - Network Alias or IP address of machine that runs an OpenLink Request Broker instance.
  	 	* Port Number - TCP port on which the Request Broker listens.
  	 	* /UID - Sybase database username.
  	 	* /PWD - Sybase database password.
  	 	* /READONLY - Read-write or read-only session mode.
  	 	* /SVT - A valid domain alias from the [Domain Aliases] section of the OpenLink server component&#39;s oplrqb.ini file.
 The default domain alias is &quot;Sybase&quot;.
 Custom aliases may take any form. 	 	* /APPLICATION - The Application name.
 Enables connectivity when restrictive server side rules screen by application name.
  	 	* /FBS - (also FETCHBUFFERSIZE) The Fetch Buffer Size.
 The Fetch Buffer Size is an integer that represents the number of rows to return during one fetch operation..
  	 	* /ENCRYPTED - Sets the Encrypted flag for outgoing packets.
 /ENCRYPTED may pass &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.)  	 	* /CHARSET - Specifies the charset of remote databases.
 The default value is read from System.getProperty(&quot;file.encoding&quot;).
  	 	* /UNICODE - Instantiates unicode.
 The unicode connection isn&#39;t used by default.
 The value may be &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, &#39;n&#39;(This feature is disabled by default.)   	 	* /DLF - Pushes large, binary objects to the end of the resultset.
 Smaller data types are retrieved first.
 This enhances performance.
 /DLF may be set to &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.)  	 	* /DATABASE - Actual Sybase database name within a particular database environment.
  	 	* /OPTIONS - Passes -S <emphasis>Sybase instance name</emphasis> -H <emphasis>IP address or hostname of database server</emphasis> -P <emphasis>Sybase TCP port</emphasis> -V <emphasis>TDS version which defaults to 5.0</emphasis>.
 For example: -S SYBASE -H 192.75.12.213 -P 1433 -V 8.0 	 	* /DRIVER - The Driver name contained in curly brackets ({}).
 Used for DSN-Less connections to remote ODBC Drivers.
   Here are some sample Sybase Type 3 connection URLs:   
<programlisting>
jdbc:openlink://localhost:5000/SVT=Sybase/DATABASE=pubs/OPTIONS=-S SYBASE -H 192.75.12.213 -P 4100 -V 5.0/UID=sa/PWD=sa

jdbc:openlink://192.75.12.213:5000/SVT=Sybase/DATABASE=pubs2/OPTIONS=-S SYBASE -H 192.75.12.213 -P 4200 -V 5.0/UID=sa/PWD=dba

jdbc:openlink://saturn/SVT=Sybase/DATABASE=master/OPTIONS=-S SYBASE -H 192.75.12.213 -P 4100 -V 5.0/UID=sa/PWD=
)))
</programlisting></section></docbook>