<docbook><section><title>HowDoIDownloadAndInstallAPre-compiledODBC-enabledPHPModuleForMacOSX</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">PHP Development Resources</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">How do I download and install a pre-compiled ODBC-enabled PHP module for Mac OS X?</bridgehead>
<para>This article explains how to install PHP with ODBC support, offering a GUI-based   installer as well as the ability to download and install a pre-compiled PHP   module for Mac OS X with ODBC support.
 <emphasis>Note: This module will only work   with the original Apache web server, as pre-installed in Mac OS X by Apple.</emphasis></para> <para><emphasis /><emphasis><emphasis> (DMG format): </emphasis></emphasis><ulink url="http://www.serverlogistics.com/php4.php#download"><ulink url="http://www.serverlogistics.com/php4.php#download&lt;/a">http://www.serverlogistics.com/php4.php#download</ulink></ulink>&gt;   <emphasis>Applies to Apache 2 installations only</emphasis></para> <para><emphasis /><emphasis>Applies to Apache 1 installations only</emphasis><emphasis>      Mac OS X 10.2 and later</emphasis>:</para> <para>1.
 To update a previously installed version of the module to the most recent   version, execute the following Terminal commands:</para> <blockquote>   <para />   <para /> </blockquote> <para>2.
 To install the ODBC-compliant module, execute the following Terminal commands:</para> <blockquote>   <para />   <para /> </blockquote> <para>3 . To activate the new PHP module, execute the following Terminal commands:</para> <blockquote>   <para><emphasis>Note: the command above belongs on a single line.
 For best results,     copy and paste from your browser to a text editor, and strip out any line-feeds.     </emphasis></para> </blockquote> <para>4.
 Proceed to <emphasis>Post installation </emphasis>steps below.</para> <para><emphasis>   Mac OS X 10.1.5 and earlier:</emphasis></para> <para>1.
 To install the ODBC-compliant module, execute the following Terminal commands:</para> <blockquote>   <para /> </blockquote> <para>2.
 To activate the new PHP module, execute the following Terminal commands:</para> <blockquote>   <para><emphasis>Note: the command above belongs on a single line.
 For best results,     copy and paste from your browser to a text </emphasis><emphasis>editor, and strip out     any line-feeds.     </emphasis></para> </blockquote> <para> 4.
 Proceed to Post installation steps below.</para> <para><emphasis>Post installation (all platforms):</emphasis></para> <para>1.
 Next, you need to disable two modules in the    file, if they are enabled.
 Comment them out like this:</para> <blockquote>   <para> </para> </blockquote> <para>2.
 Restart Apache.
 PHP should now be up and running.</para> <para>3.
 You can test it by creating a file named test.php in your &quot;Sites&quot;   folder.
 In that file, place a single line reading as follows:</para> <blockquote>   <para /> </blockquote> <para>4.
 Now open up &lt;http:<emphasis>127.0.0.1/~your_username/test.php&gt; in your web   browser.
 You should see a status table with information about the PHP module.      For more information on PHP module update and installation problems, visit <ulink url="http://www.entropy.ch/software/macosx/php/#intro"><ulink url="http://www.entropy.ch/software/macosx/php/#intro&lt;/a">http://www.entropy.ch/software/macosx/php/#intro</ulink></ulink>&gt;. </emphasis></para> 
</section></docbook>