<docbook><section><title>HowDoIConfigureTheIngresNativeClient</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure the Ingres native client</bridgehead>
<para>Perform the following steps on Unix:</para><para>1.
 Login to your Unix client.</para><para>2.
 su to ingres.</para><para>3.
 execute the ingres user&#39;s .profile.</para><para>4.
 cd into the bin sub-directory of the Ingres installation.</para><para>5.
 Run the netutil command.</para><para>6.
 Use the Create command to create a new vnode.</para><para>7.
 Name your vnode.</para><para>8.
 Select global or private.</para><para>9.
 Provide login credentials for the ingres database to which you intend to connect.</para><para>10.
 Use ESC or the relevant character to exit the dialog.</para><para>11.
 Use Save to save your vnode.</para><para>12.
 Type the IP address or network address of the Ingres server into the Network Address field of the vnode.</para><para>13.
 Type tcp ip into the Protocol field of the vnode.</para><para>14.
 Type II, I6, I7, or other appropriate listen address in the Listen Address field of the vnode.</para><para>15.
 Use ESC or the relevant character to exit the dialog.</para><para>16.
 Use ESC or the relevant character to access the vnode commands.</para><para>17.
 Type Test to test your vnode.</para><para>18.
 Use ESC or the relevant character to access the vnode commands.</para><para>19.
 Type End to exit netutil.</para><para>Perform the following steps on Windows:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains the Ingres client installation.</para><para>2.
 Expand the Start menu.</para><para>3.
 Expand the Programs menu.</para><para>4.
 Expand the Ingres menus until you locate the Ingres Visual DBA.</para><para>5.
 Launch the Ingres Visual DBA.</para><para>6.
 Right click the Nodes folder.</para><para>7.
 Click Add.</para><para>8.
 Provide the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Virtual Node: Arbitrary name for your new Ingres node </listitem>
<listitem> User Name: Valid Ingres database user name </listitem>
<listitem> Password: Corresponding Ingres database password </listitem>
<listitem> Confirm Password: Same as above </listitem>
<listitem> Remote Node: Hostname or IP address of maching hosting the Ingres database </listitem>
<listitem> Protocol: wintcp </listitem>
<listitem> Listen Address: Valid Ingres Listening Port (e.g., II, I6, I7)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>9.
 Click OK.</para><para>10.
 Right click the new Node.</para><para>11.
 Select Connect/DOM.</para><para>12.
 Wait for the main frame of Visual DBA to populate with Database schema information.</para><para>13.
 Right click the Node.</para><para>14.
 Select SQL test.</para><para>15.
 Enter a SQL query in the text box.</para><para>16.
 Click the Go (Running Man) icon.
</para></section></docbook>