<docbook><section><title>HowDoIConfigureTheInformixNativeClient</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Configure the Informix native client</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Perform the following steps on Windows:</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Expand the Start menu.</para><para>2.
 Expand the Programs menu.</para><para>3.
 Expand the INFORMIX-Connect folder.</para><para>4.
 Launch Informix Setnet32.</para><para>5.
 Click the Environment tab.</para><para>6.
 Pass the full path to the Informix client installation to the INFORMIXDIR variable.</para><para>7.
 Pass the name of the Informix DBMS server (not physical machine) to INFORMIXSERVER.</para><para>8.
 Click the Server Information tab.</para><para>9.
 Pass the name of the Informix DBMS server (not physical machine) to Informix Server.</para><para>10.
 Pass the hostname of the physical Informix server to HostName.</para><para>11.
 Pass the Informix protocol (olsoctcp, onsoctcp) to Protocolname.</para><para>12.
 Pass the service name from /etc/services or \etc\servicse to Service Name.</para><para>13.
 Click the Host Information tab.</para><para>14.
 Pass the hostname of the physical Informix server to Current Host.</para><para>15.
 Pass the Informix username to User Name.</para><para>16.
 Select your password option.</para><para>17.
 Provide a password, as required.</para><para>18.
 Close Informix Setnet32.</para><para>19.
 Expand the Start menu.</para><para>20.
 Expand the Programs menu.</para><para>21.
 Expand the INFORMIX-Connect folder.</para><para>22.
 Launch ILogin Demo.</para><para>23.
 Expand the File menu.</para><para>24.
 Select Run.</para><para>25.
 Fill in the values.</para><para>26.
 Click OK.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Perform the following steps on Unix:</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Login to the Unix client.</para><para>2.
 su to the Informix user.</para><para>3.
 cd into the root of the Informix client installation.</para><para>4.
 Run the Informix user&#39;s .profile.</para><para>5.
 cd into the /etc sub-directory of the Informix installation.</para><para>6.
 vi sqlhosts.</para><para>7.
 Create one line that passes the: Informix DBMS server name, Informix protocol, hostname of Informix server, Informix service from services file.</para><para>8.
 Exit sqlhosts.</para><para>Here is a sample Unix $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts file:</para><programlisting>      ol_saturn olsoctcp saturn.testserver.com inf9srv
</programlisting><para>Note: Don&#39;t know what values to pass to Informix SetNet32 or $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts? If your Informix server is running on Unix, you will find the appropriate values in the server&#39;s /etc/services, Informix .profile, and $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts files.
 If your Informix server is running on Windows, you will find the appropriate values in the server&#39;s C:\Windows \System32\Drivers\etc\services file, the Server Instance Manager (Start Menu), and the $INFORMIXDIR\etc\onconfig file.
</para></section></docbook>