<docbook><section><title>HowDoICreateAnApplicationServer3-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToSybaseASA</title><para> How do I create an application server (3-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to Sybase ASA?       You must pass the following values in your Multi-Tier DSN:   
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>Name</entry><entry> A descriptive name that identifies the Data Source. </entry></row>
<row><entry>Server</entry><entry> Passes the hostname or IP address of the server on which the Multi-Tier Request Broker listens. Also passes the TCP port on which the Broker listens. The format is host:port.</entry></row>
<row><entry>Domain</entry><entry>This value corresponds to a Domain Alias that appears in the [Domain Aliases] section of the Session Rules Book. The default Domain Alias is &quot;Sybase.&quot; Custom Domain Aliases may take any form.</entry></row>
<row><entry>Database</entry><entry>This is the name of the Sybase database.</entry></row>
<row><entry>Connect Options</entry><entry>This passes -S <emphasis>Sybase instance name</emphasis> -H <emphasis>hostname or IP address of the machine that contains Sybase</emphasis> -P <emphasis> TCP port on which Sybase listens</emphasis> and -V <emphasis>TDS version which defaults to 5.0</emphasis>. For example: -S SYBASE -H 192.75.11.235 -P 4100 -V 5.0</entry></row>
<row><entry>Login ID </entry><entry>This is a valid Sybase database username.</entry></row>
<row><entry>Password</entry><entry>This is a valid Sybase database password.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>  Note: The Domain field is synonymous with the SVT parameter in Unix odbc.ini files.
 The Connect Options field is synonymous with the Options field in Unix odbc.ini files.
 </para></section></docbook>