<docbook><section><title>IncompatibleJDBCClientVersion</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (I)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Incompatible JDBC client version</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Incompatible JDBC Client version&quot; errors occur when client .jar files are incompatible with server-side JDBC agents.
 If you receive &quot;Incompatible JDBC client&quot; errors, review your client&#39;s CLASSPATH.
 You will find your CLASSPATH value in one of the following locations:</para><para>1.
 Unix users may type the following command at a Unix client prompt:</para><programlisting>echo $CLASSPATH
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Windows NT &amp; 2000 users will find this value in the System utility.
 This utility appears in the Control Panel.
 Depending upon the version, it will have an Environment tab.
 Or, it will have an Advanced tab with an Environment button.</para><para>3.
 Windows &#39;95/&#39;98 users may open their autoexec.bat files.</para><para>If you have installed multiple versions of OpenLink software on your machine, you must insure that your CLASSPATH references the .jar files which match your current Broker and agents.</para><para>If you have one OpenLink client installation, you must insure that your client .jars and server components share the build.
 If you are in doubt, download the latest client and server components from the OpenLink home page.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Request Broker Log Classpath</para></section></docbook>