<docbook><section><title>InformixError1829</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (#)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">-1829 Errors</bridgehead>
<para>The Informix error -1829 occurs when a system is unable to load the file $INFORMIXDIR/msg/citoxmsg.pam.
 To rectify this situation, all users should set the INFORMIXDIR environment variable using the Unix commandline or the Windows System utility.</para><para>Multi-Tier users should also perform the following configuration change:</para><para>1.
 Login to the machine that contains the OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file that appears in the bin sub-directory of the OpenLink installation.</para><para>3.
 Locate the [Environment INFORMIX] section that corresponds to their OpenLink driver version.
 For example:</para><para>[Environment INFORMIX73]</para><para>4.
 Ensure that INFORMIXDIR is present, uncommented, and set to the appropriate directory.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX73]
INFORMIXSERVER = openlink
INFORMIXDIR = /dbs/informix/32bit/v73
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save any changes and exit the file.</para><para>6.
 Restart or reinitialize (oplshut +reinit) the Request Broker process to register changes.</para><para>7.
 Test.</para></section></docbook>