<docbook><section><title>INFORMIXSERVERError</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (T)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">The INFORMIXSERVER value is not listed in the sqlhosts file or the Registry.
 (-25596)&quot; </bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink&#39;s drivers associate an INFORMIXSERVER with our agent instances.
 This value is passed by the INFORMIXSERVER parameter that appears in the [Environment INFORMIX] section of your server&#39;s oplrqb.ini.
 You will find oplrqb.ini in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
 You may open oplrqb.ini with any text editor.
 Here is an example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX73]
INFORMIXSERVER     = inf7server
INFORMIXDIR        = /dbs/informix/7.3
DELIMIDENT         = Y  
OPL_INF_MULTISESS  = Y  
OPL_SPACEPADCHAR   = Y  
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW     
</programlisting><para> This value must match the value that is set in your Informix user&#39;s .profile and your $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts file.
 Here are sample files:</para><programlisting>## . PROFILE ##

INFORMIXDIR=/dbs/informix/7.3
INFORMIXSERVER=inf7server
ONCONFIG=onconfig
SHMBASE=0x0
PATH=$PATH:$INFORMIXDIR/bin
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$INFORMIXDIR/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export INFORMIXDIR PATH LD_LIBRARY_PATH INFORMIXSERVER ONCONFIG SHMBASE

## $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts ##   
 
inf7server    onsoctcp    austin.hp.com   inf7srv
</programlisting><para> The $INFORMIXSERVER values from OpenLink&#39;s oplrqb.ini file and the Informix $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts file must match.
 If they don&#39;t match, the error is returned.
 To rectify the problem, simply change the $INFORMIXSERVER value in oplrqb.ini--to a suitable value from $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts--and run oplshut +reinit.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>