<docbook><section><title>IntroToODBC</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Introduction to Data Access</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODBC</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">About ODBC</bridgehead>
<para>Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) is a Microsoft standard for database access.
 It provides a mechanism for desktop-based tools (word processors, spreadsheets, report writers, Internet/Intranet tools, etc.) to transparently access data sources such as databases.
 OpenLink Software provides the drivers that you need to access your data sources from these ODBC compliant desktop applications.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">How ODBC Works</bridgehead>
<para>A typical Single-Tier installation may consist of a database server and a client that comprises the client networking provided by the database engine vendor and the OpenLink Lite ODBC driver.
 The client components need to be installed on every machine that is going to access the data.
 The ODBC driver must be accompanied by an application, such as Microsoft Office, which will use the driver to access and manipulate the data.</para><para>The OpenLink drivers can be used with, among others, the following software packages:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Microsoft Excel </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft Word </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft Access </listitem>
<listitem> Crystal Report Writer </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft FrontPage98 (web page development tool) </listitem>
<listitem> Visual Basic, Visual C++ </listitem>
<listitem> All Visual Studio ADO components</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>All standard Microsoft Office applications use the Microsoft Query tool to access data.
 This package must be installed in order for ODBC drivers to work.
 Microsoft queries can be embedded in documents and spreadsheets and easily reused and modified.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">What You Can Do With ODBC</bridgehead>
<para>Here are just a few possibilities:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Customize reports directly in Microsoft Excel </listitem>
<listitem> Create (e-)mailing lists in Microsoft Word </listitem>
<listitem> Write and design reports in Crystal Reports </listitem>
<listitem> Create custom reporting tools or data monitoring tools (like CorVu&#39;s Executive Alert) through applications written in Visual Basic, C++, Java, etc.
</listitem>
<listitem> Render on-line information using data driven web content.
</listitem>
<listitem> And much more.....</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Finding Further Information About ODBC &amp; Utilities</bridgehead>
<para>The Microsoft(R) Data Access SDK is the primary source of information, instructions, and utilities on use of data access technologies such as ODBC.
 It provides tools, samples, and documentation to help developers create solutions for their data access needs.
 For the latest news and updates about the data access technologies, go to the Microsoft Data Access Web site <ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/data/">http://www.microsoft.com/data/</ulink></para><para>The MSDASDK contains a complete programmers&#39; reference guide to ODBC, as well as other data access technologies.</para><para>An online version is available at the <ulink url="http://msdn.microsoft.com/">MSDN site</ulink>.</para><para>Direct API testing applications are also available in the MSDASDK.
</para></section></docbook>