<docbook><section><title>InvalidSQLHOSTS</title><title>Invalid SQLHOSTS</title>Invalid SQLHOSTS
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> When using Multi-Tier drivers, &quot;invalid sqlhosts&quot; errors may indicate that your Database Agent was built against a version of Informix which did not support SQLHOSTS server group entries.
 To remedy this problem, pursue the following options: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Create a separate sqlhosts file, e.g., <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikisqlhosts2</span>.
 (This second sqlhosts file cannot contain server group entries.) Then, set the INFORMIXSQLHOSTS environment variable to point to this new file.
 For example: <programlisting>export INFORMIXSQLHOSTS=/dbs/informix/32bit/7.3/etc/sqlhosts2
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Relink your database agent.
 This may enable your agent to work with the existing sqlhosts file.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem> If you are using a Single-Tier driver, the <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki$INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts</span> file (or the sqlhosts information in the Windows registry) should be checked, to confirm that all data therein is correct and contains supported values.
</listitem>
<listitem> If you are working with IBM Informix Dynamic Server, IBM Informix Universal Server, or IBM Informix <ulink url="OnLine">OnLine</ulink> Dynamic Server, also check the DBSERVERNAME, DBSERVERALIASES, and NETTYPE parameters in the $ONCONFIG configuration file or within the informixserver entries in the registry.
</listitem>
<listitem> If you are working with IBM Informix SE, check the dbservername, nettype, hostname, and servicename fields in the sqlhosts file to make sure that you have entered the correct values.
</listitem>
<listitem> For additional information, refer to your Informix Administrator&#39;s Guide.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Database Agent Version String </listitem>
<listitem> DBMS Version </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>