<docbook><section><title>InvalidAddressToAttachTheSharedMemorySegment</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (I)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Invalid address to attach the shared memory segment</bridgehead>
<para> If you experience &quot;invalid address&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [generic_proxxx] section which corresponds to your OpenLink database agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_pro82a]
Program = pro82a_sv.exe
Environment = PROGRESS82A
ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31
ReUse = if same database, if same machine
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Pass -Q to ServerOptions.
 For example:</para><programlisting>ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31 -Q
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Change your database agent&#39;s ReUse rule to &#39;Never.&#39; For example:</para><programlisting>ReUse = Never
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>6.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para> If the problem continues, establish a sockets connections.
 The following instructions will assist you with this task:</para><para> 1.
 Use a text editor to open your server&#39;s /etc/services or C:\WINNT\System32\drivers\etc\services file.</para><para>2.
 Create an entry in your services file which pairs your Progress server with any unused port number.
 For example:</para><programlisting>pro82a 8899/tcp # Progress Socket Service
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Shutdown your Progress Database and restart it.
 Pass the following parameters at startup:</para><programlisting>-S socket_service -N tcp -H your_server_hostname
</programlisting><para> ex:</para><programlisting>-S pro82a -N tcp -H saturnus
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Pass these same parameters in the Database Server field of your client&#39;s DSN.</para><para>5.
 Test your connection.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Request Broker Log</para></section></docbook>