<docbook><section><title>JvmDllNotFound</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: This application has failed to start because jvm.dll was not found. Re-installing the application may fix this problem.</title> Error Message: <computeroutput>This application has failed to start because jvm.dll was not found. Re-installing the application may fix this problem.</computeroutput>
<para>This error indicates that either the Java Virtual Machine (JVM, may be installed as part of the Java Development Kit [JDK] or Java Runtime Environment [JRE]) has not been installed, or the operating system cannot find it.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> JVM (part of JRE or JDK) must be installed </bridgehead>
<para>You must have a JVM that is compatible with our components</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using the 32-bit ODBC Driver, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> have the 32-bit JVM, even on 64-bit Windows.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using the 64-bit ODBC Driver, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> have the 64-bit JVM, which is automatically presented only to 64-bit IE but may be manually selected for download using any browser.
</listitem>
<listitem> It is generally best to <emphasis>install both 32-bit JVM and 64-bit JVM</emphasis> on 64-bit Windows.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Directory containing jvm.dll must be in PATH </bridgehead>
<para>The path to the directory containing the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput> must be included in your <computeroutput>%PATH%</computeroutput> Environment Variable.
 To do this, proceed as follows -- </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use the Windows Explorer&#39;s <emphasis>Search</emphasis> feature to locate the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput>, and make note of the directory in which it is found.
 If more than one is found, work with the most recent.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click to the <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis> button.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the <emphasis>System variables</emphasis> pane, locate and select the environment variable named <emphasis><computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput></emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> which will bring up a new dialog containing <emphasis>Variable name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Variable value</emphasis> fields.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the directory path from step #1 to the <emphasis>back end</emphasis> of the already present &quot;Variable value&quot; field, taking care not to delete anything that is already present.
 Directory paths are separated by a semi-colon &#39;;&#39;, so you should usually put a semicolon before the path you&#39;re adding.
 Typically, the text being added will resemble -- <programlisting>;C:\Program Files\Java\jre1.6.0_03\bin\client
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Finally, click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to accept the changes.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>