<docbook><section><title>KeyMicrosoftAccessJetEnginesSettingThatCanAffectYourOpenLinkODBCExperience</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Additional Reading</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Key Microsoft Access Jet Engines Setting That Can Affect Your OpenLink ODBC Experience</bridgehead>
<para>The Windows registry settings for Microsoft Jet database engine connections to ODBC database are discussed below.
 These must be added to the Registry by the user or the application; the ODBC Driver Setup program does not write these values to the Registry.</para><para>Depending on the installed version(s) of Microsoft Access, Microsoft Office, and other components, these initialization settings should be found at a location similar to the following: </para><programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Jet\4.0\Engines\ODBC

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Access\7.0\Jet\3.5\Engines\ODBC

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Office\8.0\Access\Jet\3.5\Engines\ODBC
</programlisting><para> The ODBC folder may not exist in your environment, but the <computeroutput>...\Jet\4.0\Engines\</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>...\Jet\3.5\Engines\</computeroutput> folder should; you must create the ODBC folder within whichever of these is found on your Windows host.</para><para>To create the new folder, open the <computeroutput>...\Jet\*\Engines\</computeroutput> folder in the <emphasis>Registry Editor</emphasis> (Start menu &gt;&gt; Run...
 &gt;&gt; regedit), and click <emphasis>Add Key</emphasis> on the <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> menu.
 In the <emphasis>Key Name:</emphasis> text entry box, type <emphasis><computeroutput>ODBC</computeroutput></emphasis> and click <emphasis>OK.</emphasis> The Registry Editor will create a new folder below  the <computeroutput>...\Jet\*\Engines\</computeroutput> folder.</para><para><emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> If you are using Windows NT or later, the <emphasis>Add Key</emphasis> dialog box may also contain an edit box for the registry key class; you can leave this setting blank.</emphasis></para><para>Typical settings for the entries in the Jet\*\Engines\ODBC folder are shown below: </para><programlisting>AsyncRetryInterval  = 500
AttachCaseSensitive = 0
AttachableObjects   = &#39;TABLE&#39;,&#39;VIEW&#39;,&#39;SYSTEM TABLE&#39;,&#39;ALIAS&#39;,&#39;SYNONYM&#39;
ConnectionTimeout   = 600
DisableAsync        = 0
FastRequery         = 0
JetTryAuth          = 1
LoginTimeout        = 20
PreparedInsert      = 0
PreparedUpdate      = 0
QueryTimeout        = 60
SnapshotOnly        = 0
TraceODBCAPI        = 0
TraceSQLMode        = 0
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">What the settings mean</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>AsyncRetryInterval</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>The number of milliseconds between polls to determine if the server is done processing a query.
 This entry is used for asynchronous processing only.
 The default is 500 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>AttachCaseSensitive</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to match table names exactly when linking.
 Values are 0 (link the first table matching the specified name, regardless of case) and 1 (link a table only if the name matches exactly).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>AttachableObjects</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>A list of server object types to which linking will be allowed (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_SZ</computeroutput>).
 The default is: </para><programlisting>&#39;TABLE&#39;, &#39;VIEW&#39;, &#39;SYSTEM TABLE&#39;, &#39;ALIAS&#39;, &#39;SYNONYM&#39;
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>ConnectionTimeout</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>The number of seconds a cached connection can remain idle before timing out.
 The default is 600 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>DisableAsync</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to force synchronous query execution.
 Values are 0 (use asynchronous query execution if possible) and 1 (force synchronous query execution).
 The default is 1 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>FastRequery</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to use a prepared <computeroutput>SELECT</computeroutput> statement for parameterized queries.
 Values are 0 (no) and 1 (yes).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>JetTryAuth</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to try using the Microsoft Access user name and password to log in to the server before prompting.
 Values are 0 (no) and 1 (yes).
 The default is 1 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>LoginTimeout</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>The number of seconds a login attempt can continue before timing out.
 The default is 20 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>PreparedInsert</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to use a prepared <computeroutput>INSERT</computeroutput> statement that inserts data in all columns.
 Values are 0 (use a custom <computeroutput>INSERT</computeroutput> statement that inserts only non-Null values) and 1 (use a prepared <computeroutput>INSERT</computeroutput> statement).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).Using prepared <computeroutput>INSERT</computeroutput> statements can cause <computeroutput>NULL</computeroutput>s to overwrite server defaults and can cause triggers to execute on columns that weren&#39;t inserted explicitly.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>PreparedUpdate</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to use a prepared <computeroutput>UPDATE</computeroutput> statement that updates data in all columns.
 Values are 0 (use a custom <computeroutput>UPDATE</computeroutput> statement that sets only columns that have changed) and 1 (use a prepared <computeroutput>UPDATE</computeroutput> statement).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).
 Using prepared <computeroutput>UPDATE</computeroutput> statements can cause triggers to execute on unchanged columns.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>QueryTimeout</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>The number of seconds a query can run (total processing time) before timing out.
 The default is 60 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>SnapshotOnly</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether Recordset objects are forced to be of snapshot type.
 Values are 0 (allow dynasets) and 1 (force snapshots only).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>TraceSQLMode</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether the Jet database engine will trace SQL statements sent to an ODBC data source in <computeroutput>SQLOUT.txt</computeroutput>.
 Values are 0 (no) and 1 (yes).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).
 This entry is interchangeable with <computeroutput>SQLTraceMode</computeroutput>.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> <emphasis><computeroutput>TraceODBCAPI</computeroutput></emphasis> </bridgehead>
<para>An indicator of whether to trace ODBC API calls in <computeroutput>ODBCAPI.txt</computeroutput>.
 Values are 0 (no) and 1 (yes).
 The default is 0 (values are of type <computeroutput>REG_DWORD</computeroutput>).
</para></section></docbook>