<docbook><section><title>ManagedGenericMTNETDataProviderConnectionAttributes</title><para> </para><title> Building Connect Strings for the Multi-Tier Generic Client 100% Managed ADO.NET Data Provider (OpenLink.Data.GenericClient) </title> Building Connect Strings for the Multi-Tier Generic Client 100% Managed ADO.NET Data Provider (<computeroutput>OpenLink.Data.GenericClient</computeroutput>) 
<para>This Provider connects ADO.NET client applications to our Multi-Tier server components (Request Broker and target-specific Database Agents).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Connect String Format </bridgehead>
<programlisting>&quot;Host=&lt;Hostname&gt;[:&lt;portnumber&gt;][;Port=&lt;portnumber&gt;]
   [;{Server Type|ServerType|SVT}=&lt;ServerType&gt;]
   [;{Initial Catalog|DATABASE}=&lt;schema&gt;]
   [;{User ID|UID}=&lt;uid&gt;][;{Password|PWD}=&lt;pwd&gt;]
   [;{Connect Timeout|Connection Timeout}=&lt;seconds&gt;]
   [;Persist Security Info=&lt;boolean&gt;]
   [;Connection Lifetime=&lt;seconds&gt;]
   [;Min Pool Size=&lt;connections&gt;]
   [;Max Pool Size=&lt;connections&gt;]
   [;Pooling=&lt;boolean&gt;][;Charset=&lt;codepage&gt;]
   [;{Read Only|ReadOnly}=&lt;boolean&gt;]
   [;{Fetch Buffer Size|FBS|FetchBufferSize}=&lt;rows&gt;]
   [;{Defer Long Fetch|DLF|DeferLongFetch}=&lt;boolean&gt;]
   [;Encrypted=&lt;boolean&gt;]
   [;Options=&lt;as in ODBC connect string&gt;]
   [;UNICODE=&lt;boolean&gt;]
   [;APPLICATION=&quot;&quot;];&quot;
   [;MaxRows=&lt;integer&gt;];&quot;
   [;SVAST=&lt;boolean&gt;];&quot;
   [;NoRowSetSizeLimit=&lt;boolean&gt;];&quot;
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Connect String Attribute Details </bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Keyword</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Description</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Default Value</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>User ID</emphasis> or <emphasis>UID</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Database username. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Password</emphasis> or <emphasis>PWD</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Database password. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Initial Catalog</emphasis> or <emphasis>DATABASE</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Takes a database or schema name, or an Oracle SID. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Connect Timeout</emphasis> or <emphasis>Connection Timeout</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>15</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Persist Security Info</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>False</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Connection Lifetime</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>0</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Min Pool Size</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>0</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Max Pool Size</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>100</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Pooling</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>True</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Charset</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Host</emphasis>  </entry><entry> The fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address of the machine hosting the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Request Broker. May include the Port value, using the form <computeroutput>&lt;Host&gt;:&lt;Port&gt;</computeroutput>, e.g., <computeroutput>brokerhost.example.com:5000</computeroutput>. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>localhost</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Port</emphasis>  </entry><entry> The TCP port number at which the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Request Broker listens. Required if not included in the <computeroutput>Host</computeroutput> value. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>5000</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Read Only</emphasis> or <emphasis>ReadOnly</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Make the session read-only. Acceptable values are Yes and No. No may be necessary to run stored procedures in some environments.  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>False</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Fetch Buffer Size</emphasis> or <emphasis>FBS</emphasis> or <emphasis>FetchBufferSize</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Integer value to determine the number of rows to buffer in each fetch. Values range from 1 to 999.  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>100</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Server Type</emphasis> or <emphasis>ServerType</emphasis> or <emphasis>SVT</emphasis>  </entry><entry> The value must match a [Domain Alias] found in the Server&#39;s Rulebook. Default Aliases typically represent the name and version of a Database Agent. That agent version may differ from the DBMS version to which it connects. Advanced users may create custom domain names that follow their own, desired conventions. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Defer Long Fetch</emphasis> or <emphasis>DLF</emphasis> or <emphasis>DeferLongFetch</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Defers fetching of LONG (BINARY, BLOB, CLOB, etc.) fields unless explicitly requested in a query. This can provides significant performance increases when fields in query do not include LONG data fields. Possible values are YES and NO. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>False</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Encrypted</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Activates a simple encryption for communications between the Generic Client and the Request Broker. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>False</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>Options</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Passes many connection options including parameters that enable three-tier connections, i.e., connections to DBMS that do not reside on the same machine as the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Request Broker and Database Agent. Review <ulink url="MTServerConfigConnectOptions">Complete Settings and Usage for DBMS-specific Connect Options</ulink>. </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>UNICODE</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>False</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>APPLICATION</emphasis>  </entry><entry>  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;opldotNET&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>MaxRows</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Integer value to limit the number of returned rows.  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>SVAST  </emphasis></entry><entry> Present system views as if they were system tables. Acceptable values are Yes and No.  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;No&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  <emphasis>NoRowSetSizeLimit</emphasis>  </entry><entry> Set no restriction on result set sizes, permitting Cartesian products, among other possible issues. Acceptable values are Yes and No.  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>&quot;No&quot;</emphasis>  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Sample connect strings </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> For Oracle 9 </bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>&quot;Host=localhost;Port=5000;SVT=Oracle 9.x;DATABASE=ORCL;UID=scott;PWD=tiger;&quot;
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> For Microsoft SQL Server 2000 </bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>&quot;Host=localhost;Port=5000;SVT=SQLServer 2000;DATABASE=Northwind;UID=sa;PWD=;&quot;
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> For Progress 10 (<ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink>) </bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>&quot;Host=localhost;Port=5000;SVT=Progress 100SQL;OPTIONS=-S pro102b -H proghost.example.com -N tcp;DATABASE=iSports;UID=sysprogress;PWD=yourpassword;&quot;
</programlisting></section></docbook>