<docbook><section><title>ManuallyConfigureSybaseLiteConnectivity</title><title>Manually Configure Sybase Lite Connectivity</title>Manually Configure Sybase Lite Connectivity
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Edit the file <computeroutput>bin/openlink.ini</computeroutput>, and make sure the environment section for the driver contains the right entries.
 For the SQL Server Lite Driver, this section looks like this: <programlisting>[Environment SQLServer 2000]
FREETDSCONF        = /home/openlink/bin/freetds.conf
DSQUERY            = SQLSERVER   ; Load this section from freetds.conf
TDSHOST            = host.domain ; Point this to your SQLServer machine
TDSPORT            = 1433
TDSVER             = 7.0
SQLSERVER_CATALOG  = Y
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW         ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
</programlisting>These environment varable values are database specific and are described in detail later in this section.
 In the case of SQLServer Driver, you only need to set the TDSHOST variable correctly.
 The <computeroutput>FREETDSCONF</computeroutput> variable is automatically set by the installer.
 Under normal conditions you do not have to modify the <computeroutput>freetds.conf</computeroutput> file nor the <computeroutput>DSQUERY</computeroutput> variable.
</listitem>
<listitem> Edit the file <computeroutput>bin/odbc.ini</computeroutput> and change the sample DSN found there to match your environment: <programlisting>[sql_lite]
Driver          = /home/openlink/lib/sql_st_lt.so
Description     = Sample SQLServer 2000 Lite Connection
ServerType      = SQLServer 2000
Username        =
Password        =
Database        =
ReadOnly        = no
FetchBufferSize = 60
Options         = -H sqlserverhost.example.com -P 1433 -V 8.0
</programlisting>For the SQL Server/Sybase Driver, you typically only need to modify Username, Password, Database, and Options.
 All modifications except the Driver keyword will be saved when reinstalling this or any other Lite Driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> For most Lite drivers the <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput> (or <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput>) environment variables must be set before you can load the driver.
 Therefore you will not find any mention of them in the <computeroutput>openlink.ini</computeroutput> file, as the settings found here are set by the driver <emphasis>after</emphasis> it is loaded.
</listitem>
<listitem> If the installer finds the right environment variables, e.g.
 <computeroutput>INFORMIXDIR</computeroutput>, it will note the appropriate <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput> settings, and add them automatically to the <computeroutput>openlink.sh</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>openlink.csh</computeroutput> scripts.
 This script appropriate to your shell must be run before you do anything with the Lite Drivers, e.g.: <programlisting>. ./openlink.sh

source ./openlink.csh
</programlisting>If this script is not properly executed, then the system loader library will give an error message stating it cannot find some dependent shared libraries to load.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>