<docbook><section><title>MappingNotFound</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (M)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Mapping not found</bridgehead>
<para> &quot;Mapping not found&quot; errors are returned by the OpenLink Session Rules Book.
 If you receive &quot;Mapping&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Take note of the Domain (a.k.a.
 &quot;ServerType&quot;) which you pass in your client&#39;s DSN.
 For example:</para><programlisting>Sybase 12
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your server&#39;s OpenLink installation.</para><para>3.
 Locate the [Domain Aliases] section of the Rules Book.</para><para>4.
 Locate your Domain or ServerType in the list of domain aliases.</para><para>5.
 Determine which alias is paired with your Domain or ServerType.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Domain Aliases]
Sybase 12 = syb12 //* Here syb12 is the alias.
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Locate the [Mapping Rules] section of the Rules Book.</para><para>7.
 Create a rule which pairs your alias with a generic_x section.
 For example:</para><programlisting>syb12:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_syb12
</programlisting><para> 8.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>9.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>10.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log</para></section></docbook>