<docbook><section><title>MicrosoftAccessCanTOpenTheTableInDatasheetView</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (M)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Microsoft Access can&#39;t open the table in Datasheet view</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;Datasheet view&quot; error is caused by a variety of factors.
 Please review the following:</para><para>1.
 Are you querying a Progress database? If you are querying Progress, please implement tableview.</para><para> 2.
 Are you querying Informix? If you are querying Informix, take the following action:</para><para>a) Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file.
 This file appears in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>b) Locate the [Environment INFORMIX] section which corresponds to your OpenLink agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX73]
INFORMIXSERVER   = oplushp2
INFORMIXDIR   = /dbs/informix/32bit/7.3
;DELIMIDENT   = Y; Allow quoted identifiers
</programlisting><para> c) Remove the semicolon (;) from DELIMIDENT and set it to Y.
 For example:</para><programlisting>DELIMIDENT = Y    
</programlisting><para> d) Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>e) Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para> 3.
 Do you have an older Driver Manager? In order to determine your Driver Manager version, take the following action:</para><para>a) Open your ODBC Data Sources Administrator.
 (Control Panel)</para><para>b) Click on the &quot;About&quot; tab.</para><para>c) Locate the Driver Manager in the list box.</para><para>d) If your Driver Manager version is less than 3.510.4202.0, download the latest, appropriate MDAC components from the following site:</para><programlisting>http://www.microsoft.com/data/download.htm
</programlisting></section></docbook>