<docbook><section><title>MTAgentConfigurationDBMSVariables</title><para> </para><title>Database Agent Environment Settings found in the Broker Rulebook</title>Database Agent Environment Settings found in the Broker Rulebook
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Common Agent Environment Settings</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> CURSOR_SENSITIVITY </entry><entry> LOW </entry><entry> Enables or disables the row version cache used with dynamic cursors. When dynamic cursor sensitivity is set high, the Cursor Library calculates checksums for each row in the current rowset and compares these with the check-sums (if any) already stored in the row version cache for the same rows when fetched previously. If the check-sums differ for a row, the row has been updated since it was last fetched and the row status flag is set to <computeroutput>SQL_ROW_UPDATED</computeroutput>. The row version cache is then updated with the latest check-sums for the rowset. From the user&#39;s point of view, the only visible difference between the two sensitivity settings is that a row status flag can never be set to <computeroutput>SQL_ROW_UPDATED</computeroutput> when the cursor sensitivity is low. (The row status is instead displayed as <computeroutput>SQL_ROW_SUCCESS</computeroutput>.) In all other respects, performance aside, the two settings are the same. Deleted rows don&#39;t appear in the rowset. Updates to the row since the row was last fetched are reflected in the row data, and inserted rows appear in the rowset, if their keys fall within the span of the rowset. If your application does not need to detect the row status <computeroutput>SQL_ROW_UPDATED</computeroutput>, you should leave the &#39;<emphasis>High Cursor Sensitivity</emphasis>&#39; checkbox unchecked, as performance will be impacted. The calculation and comparison of check-sums for each row fetched carries an overhead. If this option is enabled, the table <computeroutput>oplrvc</computeroutput> must have been created beforehand using the appropriate script for the target database.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">DB2</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> DB2DIR </entry><entry> /DB2 </entry><entry> Full path to the base directory for the DB2 installation. <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> DB2 version 5 and below use the environment variable DB2PATH instead.</emphasis> </entry></row>
<row><entry> DB2INSTANCE </entry><entry> DB2 </entry><entry> Name of the instance you want to connect to. DB2 is the default DB2 instance name. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Informix 5</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> INFORMIXDIR </entry><entry> /dbs/informix5 </entry><entry> Full path to the base directory for the Informix 5 installation. </entry></row>
<row><entry> TBCONFIG </entry><entry> tbconfig </entry><entry> Database server configuration file. </entry></row>
<row><entry> FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE </entry><entry> 1 </entry><entry> Force mode to (0) SE or (1) ONLINE. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Informix 6</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> INFORMIXDIR </entry><entry> /dbs/informix6 </entry><entry> Full path to the base directory for the Informix 6 installation. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Informix 7+</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> INFORMIXDIR </entry><entry> /dbs/informix7 </entry><entry> Full path to the base directory for the Informix 7 installation. </entry></row>
<row><entry> INFORMIXSERVER </entry><entry> online7 </entry><entry> The name of Informix 7 server that you want the agent to attach to. As long as you have I-Connect or I-Net installed, configured, and up-and-running this value can connect your database agent with remote Informix database servers. </entry></row>
<row><entry> ONCONFIG </entry><entry> ONCONFIG </entry><entry> Database server configuration file. </entry></row>
<row><entry> FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE </entry><entry> 1 </entry><entry> Force mode: 0 for Standard Engine (SE); 1 for ONLINE. </entry></row>
<row><entry> DELIMIDENT </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> When set to <emphasis>Y</emphasis>, SQL-92 rules are in effect for quoted identifiers and literals.  Literals must be wrapped in single-quotes.  Identifiers may be wrapped in double-quotes to get around reserved word and reserved character limitations.  When set to <emphasis>N</emphasis>, literals may be wrapped in either double- or single-quotes and identifiers may not be wrapped. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OPL_INF_MULTISESS </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> Enables Informix multi-session mode. Y: Each ODBC connection gets its own database session. N: All ODBC connections share a single database connection. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OPL_SPACEPADCHAR </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> Character data from a CHAR column is fetched with trailing spaces retained. The column data is padded up to the column width, if actual content is shorter. N: Trailing spaces will be stripped off. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Ingres</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> II_DATE_FORMAT </entry><entry> US </entry><entry> Defines the output format for dates as dd-mmm-yyyy. This should not be changed inside the Rule Book since it enables the best compatibility with OpenLink. This will not affect any other Ingres applications. </entry></row>
<row><entry> II_SYSTEM </entry><entry> /dbs </entry><entry> Full path to the directory containing the Ingres/ directory, e.g., if your Ingres installation directory is /dbs/Ingres then set this to /dbs. </entry></row>
<row><entry> ING_SET </entry><entry> set lockmode session where readlock<span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki</span><para>nolock </para></entry><entry> When the Ingres agent is started, the first thing it does is run this command. The command itself makes sure that a simple SELECT statement does not lock all the rows it selects. </entry></row>
<row><entry> USE_OWNER </entry><entry> Y or N </entry><entry> Only applicable for Ingres 6.4 databases. If set to Y forces the driver to return the Ingres internal table owner as the schema name for the table, as was necessary for early version of MSQuery. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">ODBC-JDBC Bridge</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> JET_SQLSTATISTICSOFF </entry><entry> FALSE </entry><entry> If it is set to &#39;TRUE&#39;, the function SQLStatistics() returns an empty result set. This helps to resolve the problem with the SQLStatistics() output from some JDBC drivers. </entry></row>
<row><entry> JET_DROPCATALOGFROMDBMETACALLS </entry><entry> FALSE </entry><entry> If it is set to &#39;TRUE&#39;, the NULL will be assigned to the field &#39;Catalog&#39; in the result sets of SQLTables(), SQLColumns() &amp; SQLStatistics() calls. </entry></row>
<row><entry> JET_DROPSCHEMAFROMDBMETACALLS </entry><entry> FALSE </entry><entry> If it is set to &#39;TRUE&#39;, the NULL will be assigned to the field &#39;Schema&#39; in the result sets of SQLTables(), SQLColumns() &amp; SQLStatistics() calls. </entry></row>
<row><entry> JET_NOSUPPORTOFQUOTEDIDENTIFIER </entry><entry> FALSE </entry><entry> If it is set to &#39;TRUE&#39;, the call SQLGetInfo(SQL_IDENTIFIER_QUOTE_CHAR) will return the space (&quot; &quot;). This can be used if DBMS doesn&#39;t support quoted identifiers as in SELECT * FROM &quot;account&quot;. </entry></row>
<row><entry> PATCHNULLSIZEOFSQLCHAR </entry><entry> 	 </entry><entry> If DBMS is returning a field of type SQLCHAR or SQLVARCHAR with zero size, the size will be replaced with the value of PATCHNULLSIZEOFSQLCHAR </entry></row>
<row><entry>OPL_JVM_OPTS </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> List of standard <ulink url="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/vmoptions-jsp-140102.html">java command line arguments</ulink> to pass to the JVM on initiation of the session  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Oracle 7</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> ORACLE_HOME </entry><entry> /dbs/oracle7 </entry><entry> The home directory for the Oracle installation. </entry></row>
<row><entry> ODBC_CATALOGS </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> Uncomment after running the &quot;odbccat7.sql&quot; script. </entry></row>
<row><entry> MULTIPLEX_LDA </entry><entry> 5 </entry><entry> Allow 5 OpenLink clients via a single database session. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OPL_USER_TBLS_FIRST </entry><entry> N </entry><entry> Set to Y to show OpenLink User Tables first. </entry></row>
<row><entry> SHOW_REMARKS </entry><entry> N </entry><entry> Set to Y to retrieve SQLColumns REMARKS field. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> ORACLE_HOME </entry><entry> /dbs/oracle </entry><entry> The home directory for the Oracle installation. </entry></row>
<row><entry> ODBC_CATALOGS </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> Uncomment after loading the &quot;odbccat8.sql&quot; script. </entry></row>
<row><entry> MULTIPLEX_LDA </entry><entry> 5 </entry><entry> Allow 5 OpenLink clients via a single database session. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OPL_USER_TBLS_FIRST </entry><entry> N </entry><entry> Set to Y to show OpenLink User Tables first. </entry></row>
<row><entry> SHOW_REMARKS </entry><entry> N </entry><entry> Set to Y to retrieve SQLColumns REMARKS field. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OCI_PREFETCH_ROWS </entry><entry> 120 </entry><entry> Sets the number of rows to be prefetched. </entry></row>
<row><entry> OCI_PREFETCH_MEMORY </entry><entry> 64 </entry><entry> Kb of memory allocated for rows to be prefetched. </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Progress</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> DLC </entry><entry> /dbs/dlc </entry><entry> Must be full path to the Progress dlc directory.</entry></row>
<row><entry> PROCFG </entry><entry> /dbs/dlc/progress.cfg </entry><entry> Must be the full path and filename to the progress.cfg file. This parameter is optional. Use it if the license file can not be found.</entry></row>
<row><entry> TABLEVIEW </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Must be the full path and filename to the table view file (tableview.dat). See detailed TABLEVIEW document for more information</entry></row>
<row><entry> TABLEVIEW_QUALIFIER </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Add owner information to SELECT statements. </entry></row>
<row><entry> DEADLOCK_TIMEOUT </entry><entry> 60 </entry><entry> Seconds to wait for lock to release. </entry></row>
<row><entry> INSERT_LOGICAL </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Rewrite character TRUE/FALSE to logical. </entry></row>
<row><entry> UPDATE_LOGICAL </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Rewrite character TRUE/FALSE to logical. </entry></row>
<row><entry> SPACE_QUOTE_IDENTIFIER </entry><entry> Y  </entry><entry> If the SPACE_QUOTE_IDENTIFIER keyword is unset, it defaults to true, i.e., a space is returned as the quote character. To make the driver return an empty string for the quote character, this keyword must be set to N. Most applications work properly with the default behavior (SPACE_QUOTE_IDENTIFIER <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki</span> Y). <para>Known exceptions include some versions of Microsoft Visio, the Microsoft SQL Server DTS Wizard, and Business Objects.</para></entry></row>
<row><entry> MIN_FIELD_LEN </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Minimum length for character fields or expressions. <ulink url="DataIsTruncated">More details</ulink>.</entry></row>
<row><entry> MAX_FIELD_LEN </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Maximum length for character fields or expressions. <ulink url="DataIsTruncated">More details</ulink>.</entry></row>
<row><entry> EXPR_PRECISION </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Fixed precision for numeric expressions.</entry></row>
<row><entry> EXPR_SCALE </entry><entry>  </entry><entry> <emphasis>SQL-89 only.</emphasis> Fixed scale for numeric expressions.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">SQL Server</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> FREETDSCONF </entry><entry> /opt/openlink/bin/freetds.conf </entry><entry> Passes the full path to a local freetds.conf file.</entry></row>
<row><entry> DSQUERY </entry><entry> SQLSERVER </entry><entry> Which section will be loaded  from the freetds.conf file.</entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSHOST </entry><entry> sqlsrv.example.com </entry><entry> DNS-resolvable hostname or IP address for the target SQL Server machine</entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSPORT </entry><entry> 1433 </entry><entry> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLServerListenPort">The TCP/IP port on which your SQL Server listens for incoming connections</ulink>. </entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSVER </entry><entry> 7.0 </entry><entry> Sets TDS compatibility.  May not match actual SQL Server nor TDS version. See <ulink url="ServerAgentAdminTDS">Table #2</ulink>  for acceptable values. </entry></row>
<row><entry> SQLSERVER_CATALOG </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Sybase</bridgehead>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Variable</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Setting</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry> FREETDSCONF </entry><entry> /home/openlink/bin/freetds.conf </entry><entry> Passes the full path to a local freetds.conf file. </entry></row>
<row><entry> DSQUERY </entry><entry> SYBASE </entry><entry> Which section will be loaded from the freetds.conf file. </entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSHOST </entry><entry> sybhost.example.com </entry><entry> DNS-resolvable hostname or IP address for the target Sybase machine. </entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSPORT </entry><entry> 4100 </entry><entry> The port on which your Sybase listens for incoming connections. </entry></row>
<row><entry> TDSVER </entry><entry> 5.0 </entry><entry> Sets TDS compatibility.  May not match actual Sybase nor TDS version.  See <ulink url="ServerAgentAdminTDS">Table #2</ulink>  for acceptable values.  </entry></row>
<row><entry> SQLSERVER_CATALOG </entry><entry> Y </entry><entry> </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>