<docbook><section><title>MTDSNLessStrings</title><title> Multi-Tier Data Access Connect String Attributes </title> Multi-Tier Data Access Connect String Attributes 
<para>The following list describes valid attributes and their values common to all Multi-Tier ODBC DSN-Less Connection strings:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Host</computeroutput></emphasis> — The fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address of the machine hosting the OpenLink Request Broker.
 May include the <computeroutput>Port</computeroutput> value, using the form <computeroutput>&lt;Host&gt;:&lt;Port&gt;</computeroutput>, e.g., <computeroutput>brokerhost.example.com:5000</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Port</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TCP port number at which the OpenLink Request Broker listens.
 Required if not included in the <computeroutput>Host</computeroutput> value.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>ServerType</computeroutput></emphasis> — The value must match a <computeroutput>[Domain Alias]</computeroutput> found in the Server&#39;s Rulebook.
 Default Aliases typically represent the name and version of a Database Agent.
 That agent version may differ from the DBMS version to which it connects.
 Advanced users may create custom domain names that follow their own, desired conventions.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Protocol</computeroutput></emphasis> — <computeroutput>TCP/IP</computeroutput></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>ServerOptions</computeroutput></emphasis> — Acceptable values vary with the target database.
 Primarily used for Progress connections.
 Specifies arguments used when instantiating the Database Agent on the Broker host.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Server</computeroutput></emphasis> — OpenLink</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Options</computeroutput></emphasis> — Passes many connection options including parameters that enable three-tier connections, i.e., connections to DBMS that do not reside on the same machine as the OpenLink Request Broker and Database Agent.
 Review <ulink url="MTServerConfigConnectOptions">Complete Settings and Usage for Connect Options</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> — Takes a database or schema name, or an Oracle SID.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>DeferLongFetch</computeroutput></emphasis> — Defers fetching of <computeroutput>LONG</computeroutput> (<computeroutput>BINARY</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>BLOB</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>CLOB</computeroutput>, etc.) fields unless explicitly requested in a query.
 This can provides significant performance increases when fields in query do not include LONG data fields.
 Possible values are <computeroutput>YES</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>NO</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>MASE</computeroutput></emphasis> — &quot;Multiple Active Statement Emulation&quot; enables use of multiple active statements by an ODBC application even if the underlying database does support this feature, by emulating the functionality within the driver.
 Possible values are <computeroutput>YES</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>NO</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>SQLDBMSNAME</computeroutput></emphasis> — Overrides the response returned by the driver for <computeroutput>SQLGetInfo(SQL_DBMS_NAME)</computeroutput> calls.
 This may be required for products such as Microsoft InfoPath (for which the return the value should be &quot;SQL Server&quot;) which do not query the functionality of a back-end database, but rather decide whether they can use it based on the name it reports.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>