<docbook><section><title>MTInstallFileLocations</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Additional Reading</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Multi-Tier Installed Files &amp; Locations</bridgehead>
<para>The core components required by the Request Broker and Database Agents are situated within the &quot;bin&quot; and &quot;bin/w3config&quot; sub-directories under your OpenLink server components base installation directory.
 Each of these components is described below and grouped by directory location.</para><para>On Windows, the default base installation directory is <computeroutput>C:\Progam Files\OpenLink\</computeroutput>.
 On Mac OS X, the non-configurable base installation directory is <computeroutput>//Library/Application Support/openlink/</computeroutput>.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">The &quot;bin&quot; sub-directory</bridgehead>
<para>Below is a list of the important files in the bin directory:</para><para>Table: 1.
 Important Files in the bin directory
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>File</emphasis> </entry><entry><emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>oplrqb</entry><entry> 	The OpenLink Request Broker.</entry></row>
<row><entry>oplrqb.ini</entry><entry> 	The OpenLink &quot;Session Rules&quot; Book.</entry></row>
<row><entry>oplrqb.log</entry><entry> 	File that holds critical Broker &amp; Startup and Shutdown audit information. All critical events that affect the Broker are written to this file irrespective of Broker startup options.</entry></row>
<row><entry>oplshut 	</entry><entry>Utility for showing Agent status and shutting down the Broker.</entry></row>
<row><entry>xxx_sv 	</entry><entry>OpenLink Agent (single thread). xxx will be an abbreviation for the data access or protocol handling service provided by the OpenLink Agent.</entry></row>
<row><entry>xxx_mv 	</entry><entry>OpenLink Agent (mutli thread). xxx will be an abbreviation for the data access or protocol handling service provided by the OpenLink Agent.</entry></row>
<row><entry>release.txt</entry><entry> 	Text file with the latest information regarding the Request Broker.</entry></row>
<row><entry>oplrqb.lic </entry><entry>	File containing software activation and license key for the Broker and Database agents.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">The &quot;bin/w3config&quot; sub-directory</bridgehead>
<para>Table: 2.
 Important Files in the bin/w3config directory
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>File</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Description</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>www_sv</entry><entry> 	The OpenLink Web Service Agent, this is basically a HTTP/Web Server implemented as an OpenLink Service Providing Agent. It is this component that forms the core engine around which the OpenLink Admin Assistant has been built.</entry></row>
<row><entry>www_sv.log</entry><entry> 	File that holds critical Web Service Agent &amp; Startup and Shutdown audit information. All critical events that affect the Web Service Agent are written to this file irrespective of Web Service Agent startup options.</entry></row>
<row><entry>www_sv.ini </entry><entry>	Web Service Agent configuration file.</entry></row>
<row><entry>setup </entry><entry>	Web Service Agent installation and configuration program (you only need to run this directly if you only want to re-install the Web Service Agent component as opposed to the entire pool of OpenLink Server Components.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>