<docbook><section><title>MultiTierInstallClientQuickstartUnixMySQL</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> OpenLink Multi-tier Client Side Components (*nix) (connecting to <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Aims and Intentions</bridgehead>
<para>This guide is intended to enable competent system administrators to install and configure OpenLink Multi-tier client side components on *nix style operating systems in a few steps as possible.</para><para>This guide does not explain any of the non-pertinent features encountered along the way.
 Such explanations may be found in the full documentation.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix shell.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix editor such as vi </listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be in possession of relevant database connectivity details such as Database name, Username, password, etc.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Installation</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log onto the machine and create a suitable OpenLink installation directory (OPENLINK_INSTALL) </listitem>
<listitem> Copy all relevant components to OPENLINK_INSTALL At bare minimum, these will be the OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver and OpenLink Http Administration Assistant </listitem>
<listitem> Install using the &quot;install.sh&quot; shell script -- <programlisting>#sh install.sh

</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> The installation should finish without error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open the file $OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/odbc.ini with a suitable text editor such as vi </listitem>
<listitem> Locate and edit the [OpenLink] section, which is a sample OpenLink Generic ODBC data source (DSN) created during the installation process--</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample DSN as created by installer</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver          = /OPENLINK_INSTALL/lib/oplodbc.so
Host            = localhost:5000
ServerType      = Oracle 8.1.x
Database        = 
Options         = 
Username        = 
Password        = 
FetchBufferSize = 99
ReadOnly        = no
DeferLongFetch  = no
JetFix          = no
Description     = Sample DSN
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Example <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink> Data Source-</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>[mysql5]
Driver          = /OPENLINK_INSTALL/lib/oplodbc.so
Host            = requestbroker_hostname:5000
ServerType      = MySQL 5.x
Database        = test
Options         = -H mysql_hostname -P 3306
Username        = root
Password        = **********
FetchBufferSize = 99
ReadOnly        = no
DeferLongFetch  = no
JetFix          = no
Description     = Sample MySQL 5.x Connection
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Testing</bridgehead>
<para>Presuming the OpenLink Request Broker is already running on the target machine, you are now ready to test the connection.</para><para>Use the <computeroutput>iodbctest</computeroutput> tool which is packaged with the HTTP-based OpenLink ODBC Administrator as follows -- </para><programlisting>#cd OPENLINK_INSTALL
#. ./openlink.sh
# iodbctest mysql5
iODBC Demonstration program
This program shows an interactive SQL processor
Driver Manager: 03.52.0507.0105
Driver: 06.02.1217 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (oplodbc.so)

SQL&gt;
</programlisting><para> You should now be able to issue SQL statements directly against the target database.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Additional Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The bitness of the Generic ODBC Driver is determined by the bitness of your ODBC client application.That is, if your ODBC client application is 32-bit then the Generic ODBC Driver component <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> also be 32-bit.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>