<docbook><section><title>MultiTierInstallServerQuickstartUnixProgress</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OpenLink Multi-Tier Server-Side Components (Unix) for Progress</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Aims and Intentions </bridgehead>
<para>This guide is intended to enable competent system administrators to install and configure OpenLink Multi-tier client side components on UNIX-like operating systems (e.g., Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Linux, FreeBSD) in a few steps as possible.</para><para>This guide does not explain any of the non-pertinent features encountered along the way.
 Such explanations may be found in the full documentation.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix shell.
 <computeroutput>bash</computeroutput> is preferred; <computeroutput>sh</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>zsh</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>ksh</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>csh</computeroutput>, or <computeroutput>tcsh</computeroutput> are all usable.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix editor such as <computeroutput>vi</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>emacs</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> have read and execute permissions on a full installation of the Progress or <ulink url="OpenEdge">OpenEdge</ulink> database, or on an installation of Progress® Client Networking (for SQL-89 Agents) or Progress® SQL-92 Client Access (for SQL-92 Agents).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Installation</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log onto the machine and create a suitable OpenLink installation directory (<computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL</computeroutput>), such as <computeroutput>/opt/openlink/</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Copy all <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> component installation files to <computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL</computeroutput>.
 At a minimum, these will include the OpenLink Request Broker (<computeroutput>oplrqb.tgz</computeroutput>), an OpenLink Database Agent for your respective target database (<computeroutput>e.g., prs100_mv.tgz</computeroutput>), and an license file (oplrqb.lic).
</listitem>
<listitem> Install using the &quot;install.sh&quot; shell script -- <programlisting>#sh install.sh
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You should take care to enter correct information when prompted pertaining to ports, passwords, etc., and write these down for future use.
</listitem>
<listitem> The installation should finish without error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Licensing</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink Multi-Tier licensing is handled on the server side so you should place the OpenLink license file (<computeroutput>oplrqb.lic</computeroutput>) in the <computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/</computeroutput> directory.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>Progress requires a small amount of additional environmental configuration in the OpenLink Request Broker session rulebook (<computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>) --</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open the rulebook file, <computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>, with a suitable text editor such as vi.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate and edit the <computeroutput>[Environment xxxxx]</computeroutput> section corresponding to your target database so as to ensure that any relevant environment variables pertaining you your system and target database are correct.
 <emphasis><emphasis>NOTE:</emphasis> You may need to consult with your database administrator to verify these.</emphasis> The following example shows environment sections for a Progress 9 SQL-89 / 4GL agent, and a Progress 10 SQL-92 agent -- <emphasis>Progress 9 (SQL-89/4GL)</emphasis> <programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS91E]
DLC                 = /dbs/progress/v9.1e
PROCFG              = /dbs/progress/v9.1e/progress.cfg
;TABLEVIEW           = tableview.dat ; Full path to file generated by setup.p
;TABLEVIEW_QUALIFIER = Y       ; Add owner information to select statement
;INSERT_LOGICAL      = Y       ; Rewrite character TRUE/FALSE to logical
;UPDATE_LOGICAL      = Y       ; Rewrite character TRUE/FALSE to logical
;MIN_FIELD_LEN       =         ; Min length for char field or expression
;MAX_FIELD_LEN       =         ; Max length for expression
;EXPR_PRECISION      = 15      ; Fixed precision for numeric expressions
;EXPR_SCALE          = 2       ; Fixed scale for numeric expressions 
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY  = LOW     ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql

[Environment PROGRESS100SQL]
DLC                 = /dbs/progress/v10.0a
PROCFG              = /dbs/progress/v10.0a/progress.cfg
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY  = LOW      ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
LD_LIBRARY_PATH     = /dbs/progress/v10.0a/lib
SHLIB_PATH          = /dbs/progress/v10.0a/lib
LIBPATH             = /dbs/progress/v10.0a/lib
;SQL_CLIENT_CHARSET  = UTF-8    ; Uncomment for Unicode connection
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Start the OpenLink Request Broker</bridgehead>
<para>It is often best to initially start the Request Broker in (d)ebug mode, to gather the most diagnostic information -- </para><programlisting># cd $OPENLINK_INSTALL
# . ./openlink.sh
# oplrqb -d
OpenLink Request Broker
Version 2.47 as of Tue Jan 08 2008 (Release 6.2 cvsid 00089).
Compiled for Solaris 5.8 (sparc-sun-solaris2.8-32)
Copyright (C) OpenLink Software.  

Registered to OpenLink US Lab - INTERNAL USE ONLY
with product serial number OPL-US-INTERNAL
This is a 5 concurrent users license
restricted to 5 concurrent connections
Issued by OpenLink Software
This license will expire on Thu May 22 01:52:13 2008 GMT

oplrqb: using rulebook /opt/openlink/bin/oplrqb.ini
oplrqb: bound TCP protocol to 0.0.0.0.5000
oplrqb: request broker started by openlink
oplrqb: spawning /opt/openlink/bin/w3config/www_sv www_sv +debug
www_sv: started http://hostname:5000
oplrqb: started persistent www_sv (pid=25896)
oplrqb: ZeroConfig thread started
oplrqb: ZeroConfig registration Oracle 9.2 (oplussol4)
</programlisting><para>The OpenLink Request Broker will take over the terminal session, until terminated by &lt;Ctrl-C&gt; or other means.</para><para>Once connections are working, it is best to start without the <computeroutput>-d</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>+debug</computeroutput> arguments, to conserve disk space and minimize latency.
</para><programlisting># cd $OPENLINK_INSTALL
# . ./openlink.sh
# oplrqb
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Testing</bridgehead>
<para>You are now ready to set up and test a client connection.
 Please proceed to the relevant <ulink url="MultiTierQuickStart">client quick-start guide</ulink> for the chosen operating system.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Additional Information</bridgehead>
<para>Any changes made to <computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> will not take effect until the Request Broker is re-initialized.
</para><programlisting># cd $OPENLINK_INSTALL
# . ./openlink.sh
# oplshut +reinit
</programlisting><para> In some cases, activating settings changes require the Broker to be stopped and restarted.
</para><programlisting># cd $OPENLINK_INSTALL
# . ./openlink.sh
# oplshut -fy
# oplrqb
</programlisting><para> To stop a Request Broker running normally -- </para><programlisting># cd $OPENLINK_INSTALL
# . ./openlink.sh
# oplshut +force
</programlisting></section></docbook>