<docbook><section><title>MultiTierInstallServerQuickstartWindowsInformix</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OpenLink Multi-tier Server Side Components (Windows) for Informix</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Aims and Intentions </bridgehead>
<para>This guide is intended to enable competent system administrators to install and configure OpenLink Multi-tier client side components on Windows operating systems in a few steps as possible.</para><para>This guide does not explain any of the non-pertinent features encountered along the way.
 Such explanations may be found in the full documentation.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using Command Prompt (CMD/DOS) window (for preferred testing purposes).
</listitem>
<listitem> There <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be an existing installation of either Informix (full), Informix CSDK, or Informix Connect present on the machine, and you <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> know where this installation resides.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> have a preconfigured <computeroutput>INFORMIX_SERVER</computeroutput>.
 <ulink url="ConfigureInformixClientWindows">This should be configured</ulink> using Informix &quot;<computeroutput>setnet32</computeroutput>&quot; and connectivity proven using Informix &quot;<computeroutput>iLogin Demo</computeroutput>&quot;.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Installation</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Copy all relevant installation components to a suitable starting directory such as your Desktop.
 At a minimum, these will include the OpenLink Request Broker, an OpenLink Database Agent for Informix, and an OpenLink license file (<computeroutput>oplrqb.lic</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
<listitem> Install the OpenLink Request Broker which will prompt for the license file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Install the OpenLink Database Agent for Informix.
</listitem>
<listitem> All installers should finish without error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Licensing</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink Multi-tier licensing is handled on the server side so you should have provided the location of the license file (<computeroutput>oplrqb.lic</computeroutput>) during the installation of the Request Broker component.</para><para>If you chose to skip that part, you should now copy the license file to <computeroutput>c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin</computeroutput> (or the <computeroutput>\bin\</computeroutput> subdirectory of your custom installation location).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
Informix requires a small amount of additional environmental configuration in the OpenLink Request Broker session rule book (c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin\oplrqb.ini)--
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open the file <computeroutput>c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin\oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> with a suitable text editor, such as Wordpad.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate and edit the <computeroutput>[Environment xxxxx]</computeroutput> section (where <emphasis><computeroutput>xxxxx</computeroutput></emphasis> matches your target database), and ensure that any relevant environment variables pertaining your system and target database are correct.
 <emphasis><emphasis>NOTE:</emphasis> You may need to consult with your database administrator to verify these.</emphasis>  The following example depicts an environment section for Informix -- <programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX2000]
INFORMIXSERVER        = your_informix_server
INFORMIXDIR           = C:\Program Files\IBM\Informix\Client-SDK
DELIMIDENT            = Y      ; Allow quoted identifiers
OPL_INF_MULTISESS     = Y      ; Allow multiple sessions
OPL_SPACEPADCHAR      = Y      ; Pad CHAR fields with spaces
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY    = LOW    ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
;FET_BUF_SIZE          = 65535  ; Size of the fetch buffer
;FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE = 1      ; Force mode to (0) SE or (1) ONLINE
;CLIENT_LOCALE         = EN_US.UTF8  ; Uncomment and adjust when Client and Server locale settings differ
Path                  = C:\Program Files\IBM\Informix\Client-SDK\bin  ; Find shared libraries
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Start the OpenLink Request Broker</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Starting in Debug Mode </bridgehead>
<para> It is often best to initially start the Request Broker in debug mode (<computeroutput>oplrqb +debug</computeroutput>) in order to diagnose problems.</para><para>To do this, you must first stop the &quot;OpenLink Request Broker&quot; service.</para><para>Then, open a &quot;Command Prompt&quot; (Start &gt;&gt; Run...
 &gt;&gt; CMD) window and -- </para><programlisting>C:\&gt; cd c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin
C:\&gt; oplrqb +debug
OpenLink Request Broker
Version 2.47 as of Wed Mar 05 2008 (Release 6.2 cvsid 00089)
Compiled for Win32 (x86)
Copyright (C) OpenLink Software  

Registered to OpenLink US Lab - INTERNAL USE ONLY
with product serial number OPL-US-INTERNAL
This is a 500 concurrent users license
restricted to 500 concurrent connections
Issued by OpenLink Software
This license will expire on Thu May 22 01:52:13 2008 GMT

using rulebook c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin\oplrqb.ini
bound TCP protocol to 0.0.0.0.5000
created job for controlling agents
request broker started by garry
spawning &quot;C:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin\www_sv.exe&quot; +debug +internal 2472
started persistent www_sv (pid=3356)
</programlisting><para>The OpenLink Request Broker will continue to run, taking over the session, until &lt;Ctrl-C&gt; is entered which stops the Broker</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Starting Normally </bridgehead>
<para>To start the OpenLink Request Broker normally, simply restart the &quot;<emphasis>OpenLink Request Broker</emphasis>&quot; service through the <emphasis>Services</emphasis> control panel.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Testing</bridgehead>
<para>You are now ready to test the connection.
 This requires that you read the relevant <ulink url="MultiTierQuickStart">quick start guide for client component</ulink> on the chosen operating system and have the OpenLink Request Broker running in Debug Mode as detailed above.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Additional Information</bridgehead>
<para>Changes made to <computeroutput>c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin\oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> will not take effect until the Request Broker is reinitialized or (in some cases) stopped and restarted.</para><para>Open a &quot;Command Prompt&quot; window and - </para><programlisting>C:\&gt; cd c:\Program Files\OpenLink Software\UDA\bin
C:\&gt; oplshut +reinit
</programlisting></section></docbook>