<docbook><section><title>NETDataProvidersClassImplementation</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OpenLink .NET Data Providers Class Implementation</bridgehead>
<para>This section details the classes exposed by the OpenLink .NET Data Providers, which users must be familiar with in order to make effective use of the providers.</para><para>Many of the OpenLink Generic Provider classes implement interfaces or inherit from the .NET Framework namespaces System.Data and System.Data.Common.
 A summary of the classes exposed by the provider is given below.</para><para>The table only shows classes or interfaces inherited from System.Data or System.Data.Common.
 Some of the OpenLink.Data.GenericClient classes implement additional interfaces or inherit from a class belonging to a namespace other than System.Data or System.Data.Common.
 These details are not shown.
 For full details refer to the detailed documentation for the appropriate class in OpenLink.Data.GenericClient Namespace.</para><para> Table: 4.4.1.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLCommand">OPLCommand</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDbCommand</entry><entry> 	Represents an SQL statement or stored procedure to execute again st a database.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLCommandBuilder">OPLCommandBuilder</ulink></entry><entry> 		</entry><entry>Automatically generates single-table commands used to reconcile changes made to a <ulink url="DataSet">DataSet</ulink> with the associated data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLConnection">OPLConnection</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDbConnection</entry><entry> 	Represents an open connection to a data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLDataAdapter">OPLDataAdapter</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDbDataAdapter, DbDataAdapter</entry><entry> 	Represents a set of data commands and a database connection that are used to fill a <ulink url="DataSet">DataSet</ulink> and update a data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLDataReader">OPLDataReader</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDataReader, IDataRecord</entry><entry> 	Provides a way of reading a forward-only stream of data rows from a data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLError">OPLError</ulink></entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>	Holds information about a warning or error returned by a data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLErrorCollection">OPLErrorCollection</ulink></entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>	Represents a collection of one or more OPLError objects that give detailed information about an OPLException.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLErrorException">OPLErrorException</ulink></entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>	The exception that is generated when a warning or error is returned by a data source or the Generic Provider.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLParameter">OPLParameter</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDbDataParameter, IDataParameter </entry><entry>	Represents a parameter to an OPLCommand and optionally, its mapping to a <ulink url="DataSet">DataSet</ulink> column.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLParameterCollection">OPLParameterCollection</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDataParameterCollection </entry><entry>	Represents a collection of parameters relevant to an OPLCommand as well as their respective mappings to columns in a <ulink url="DataSet">DataSet</ulink>.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLPermission">OPLPermission</ulink></entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>	Enables the Generic Provider to ensure that a user has a security level adequate to access a data source.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLPermissionAttribute">OPLPermissionAttribute</ulink></entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>	Associates a security action with a custom security attribute.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLTransaction">OPLTransaction</ulink></entry><entry> 	IDbTransaction</entry><entry> 	Represents a SQL transaction to be made at a data source.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> Table: 4.4.2.
 Delegates
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLRowUpdatedEventHandler">OPLRowUpdatedEventHandler</ulink></entry><entry> 	Represents a method that will handle the RowUpdated event of an <ulink url="OPLDataAdapter">OPLDataAdapter</ulink>.</entry></row>
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLRowUpdatingEventHandler">OPLRowUpdatingEventHandler</ulink></entry><entry> 	Represents a method that will handle the RowUpdating event of an <ulink url="OPLDataAdapter">OPLDataAdapter</ulink>.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> Table: 4.4.3.
 Enumerations
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry><ulink url="OPLDbType">OPLDbType</ulink> </entry><entry>	Specifies the data type of a field, property or OPLParameter.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>