<docbook><section><title>NetworkReadError</title><title>Network read error (JDBC)</title>Network read error (JDBC)
<para>JDBC &quot;network read&quot; errors most often occur when incorrect port numbers are used in connection URLs.
 If you receive &quot;network read&quot; errors, insure that you pass the OpenLink Request Broker &quot;Listen&quot; port, 5000 by default, in your URL.
 This setting may have been changed during installation and configuration of the Multi-Tier components.
 If you do not know which port is utilized by your Broker, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Access the machine which contains your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open your Rulebook (default, <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> in the <computeroutput>$OPENLINK_INSTALL/bin/</computeroutput> directory) in a text editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Protocol TCP]</computeroutput> section of the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Record the value passed to <computeroutput>Listen</computeroutput>, if you use Release 4.x or later.
 If you use Release 3.x or earlier, record the value passed to <computeroutput>PortLow</computeroutput>.
 (Often the <computeroutput>Listen</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>PortLow</computeroutput> values are identical.) </listitem>
<listitem> Exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Pass the appropriate port number in your JDBC connection strings.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>These errors may also be caused by resource exhaustion on the Broker or JDBC client host.
 Kernel tuning may resolve the issue, by increasing open file, network handle, and other limits.
 Specific tuning varies with the environment, including the operating system, hardware, and other software running thereon.</para><para> <emphasis><emphasis>Release 3.x and earlier users only:</emphasis> If the problem persists, confirm that the appropriate JDBC agent is specified in your connection URLs.
 URLs targeting Unix Brokers should always use <computeroutput>JDBCAGENT=judbc</computeroutput>.
 In most instances, URLs targeting Windows Brokers should use <computeroutput>JDBCAGENT=jodbc</computeroutput>.
 However, some SQLServer users will find that <computeroutput>JDBCAGENT=judbc</computeroutput> resolves &quot;network read&quot; errors.</emphasis></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> JDBC Connect String </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Rulebook </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>