<docbook><section><title>NoClassDefFound</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (N)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">NoClassDefFound</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;NoClassDefFound&quot; errorsarises when OpenLink .jar files do not appear in the CLASSPATH.
 If you experience &quot;NoClassDefFound&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use Explorer (Windows) or find (Unix) to search your system for the OpenLink .jar files.
 They are named opljdbc.jar, opljdbc2.jar, megathin.jar, and megathin2.jar.</para><para>2.
 Record the paths returned by Explorer or find.
 For example:</para><programlisting>C:\Program Files\OpenLink\jdk1.2\megathin2.jar
C:\Program Files\OpenLink\jdk1.2\opljbc2.jar
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Pass the full path to the desired driver in the front of your CLASSPATH.
 You may set your CLASSPATH using one of the following methods:</para><para>a) Unix users may manually set and export the variable or pass it in a .profile.
 For example:</para><programlisting>export CLASSPATH=/usr/openlink/jdk1.2/megathin2.jar
</programlisting><para> b) NT and Windows 2000 users may set the variable with the System utility.
 The System utility appears in the Control Panel.
 It has an Environment tab or an Advanced tab with an Environment button.
 For example:</para><programlisting>CLASSPATH
C:\Program Files\OpenLink\jdk1.2\megathin2.jar
</programlisting><para> c) Windows &#39;95/&#39;98 users may set their CLASSPATH in the autoexec.bat file and reboot.
 For example:</para><programlisting>set CLASSPATH=C:\Program Files\OpenLink\jdk1.2\megathin2.jar
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Code Sample Classpath</para></section></docbook>