<docbook><section><title>NonSelectInRO</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (N)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Non SELECT in r/o connection</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;Non SELECT in r/o connection&quot; error message suggest that you have read-only permissions on the table against which you are trying to query.
 Review this possibility.
 Additionally, your OpenLink Session Rules Book may be enforcing READONLY connections.
 The following instructions will help you to verify or dismiss this fact:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Scroll down to [Domain Aliases].</para><para>3.
 Locate the domain, which you pass in the Domain or ServerType field of your client&#39;s DSN.
 For example:</para><programlisting>Informix 7 = inf7
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Scroll down to [Mapping Rules].</para><para>5.
 Locate your domain alias abbreviation.
 For example:</para><programlisting>inf7:*:*:*:*:*:* = accept generic_inf7
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Find the [generic_xxxx] section which is associated with your alias.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_inf72]
Description = Default settings for Informix 7.2 agent
Program = inf72_sv
Environment = INFORMIX72
OpsysLogin = Yes
ReUse = never
;CommandLine =
;ConnectOptions =
;Directory = /tmp
;Database =
;Userid =
;Password =
ReadOnly = Yes
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Insure that ReadOnly is set to No.
 For example:</para><programlisting>ReadOnly = No
</programlisting><para> 9.
 If you make changes, restart or reinitialize your OpenLink Request Broker.</para><para>Finally, one build of OpenLink&#39;s 3.2 software (3.20.09.14) contains a bug.
 These 3.2 clients issue a SQLSetConnectOption ODBC API call, which sets the SQL_ACCESS_MODE to 1.
 This enforces a read-only connection.
 Below, you will see a sample ODBC API call associated with this problem:</para><programlisting>ENTER SQLSetConnectOption
HDBC 091D14D8
UWORD 101 &lt;SQL_ACCESS_MODE&gt;
SQLLEN 1
</programlisting><para> If your 3.2 software contains this bug, you will need to upgrade your software.
 (The fix was introduced in OpenLink 4.0.) If you are uncertain about the presence of a bug, forward a trace and your client driver version to OpenLink Product Support.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log Database Agent Version String</para></section></docbook>