<docbook><section><title>NoOPENLINKODBCINI</title><para> </para><title>No OpenLink ODBC.INI file found</title>No OpenLink ODBC.INI file found
<para> The &quot;No OpenLink ODBC.INI file found&quot; error message suggests that the $ODBCINI environment variable has not been set.
 If you receive this error, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client components installation.
 For example: <programlisting>$ cd /opt/openlink
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Execute the command which corresponds to your Unix shell -- 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry> sh, bash, zsh  </entry><entry> . ./openlink.sh  </entry></row>
<row><entry> ksh  </entry><entry> source ./openlink.sh  </entry></row>
<row><entry> csh, tcsh  </entry><entry> source ./openlink.csh  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that $ODBCINI, $ODBCINSTINI, and $OPENLINKINI are set.
 For example: <programlisting>% set | grep INI
ODBCINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbc.ini
ODBCINSTINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini
OPENLINKINI=/opt/openlink/bin/openlink.ini
</programlisting><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If the variables now appear to be set, proceed to the next numbered step.
</listitem>
<listitem> If the variables do not appear to be set, review the content of the openlink.sh or openlink.csh script.
 Take note of the environment variable settings therein.
 Then, try to manually set them on the command line.
 For example (your output will differ!): <programlisting>% cd /opt/openlink
% cat openlink.sh
ODBCINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbc.ini
ODBCINSTINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini
OPENLINKINI=/opt/openlink/bin/openlink.ini
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/openlink/lib
OPL_LICENSE_DIR=/opt/openlink/bin

export ODBCINI ODBCINSTINI OPENLINKINI LD_LIBRARY_PATH OPL_LICENSE_DIR

% export UDBCINI=/opt/openlink/bin/udbc.ini
% export ODBCINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbc.ini
% export ODBCINSTINI=/opt/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini
% export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/openlink/lib
% export OPL_LICENSE_DIR=/opt/openlink/bin
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Stop and restart the HTTP-based <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC Administrator, so it picks up the new environment variable settings -- <programlisting>% /opt/openlink/bin/iodbc-admin-httpd.sh stop
% /opt/openlink/bin/iodbc-admin-httpd.sh start
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Reattempt your browser-based configuration.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Names of all <computeroutput>.taz</computeroutput> files </listitem>
<listitem> Output of <programlisting>set
uname -a
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> the complete openlink.sh and openlink.csh files</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>