<docbook><section><title>ObtainingDBAgentVersions</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Obtaining Product Version Information</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Obtaining Database Agent Information</bridgehead>
<para>This approach provides you with information about the actual executable file, it includes:</para><para>Version Number - this is a component identifier that indicates the version number specific of a specific OpenLink Component</para><para>Release Number - this is an identifier for a collection of &lt;nopLOpenLink Components, numerous components with different version numbers make up an OpenLink Data Access Drivers commercial release.</para><para>Compilation Date - indicates the date component was compiled.</para><para>CVSID - this is a source code archive identifier that relates to the actual source code archive from which a particular component has been assembled.</para><para>Binary Platform - indicates what platform the component has been built to run on.</para><para>To obtain the information referred to above for any OpenLink Component simply type in the program name at your command prompt with the --help switch.</para><para> OpenLink Database agents have a specific naming convention, reflecting the identification of a particular database engine, and in some case specific versions of a given database engine.</para><para>The OpenLink executable binary file naming convention consists of three distinctive logical parts:</para><programlisting>&lt;db_engine&gt;[&lt;db_ver&gt;]_&lt;[sv|mv]&gt;[.exe]
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Database Engine - first three or four characters </listitem>
<listitem> Database Version - next two or three characters (depending on database engine version number-functionality issues) </listitem>
<listitem> OpenLink Service Provider Identifier - the characters &quot;_sv&quot; for single threaded or &quot;_mv&quot; for multi-threaded.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>On a Windows system, the file extension is .exe which is shown as optional in this description but omitted in the table below.</para><para>The table below shows you how the current pool of OpenLink agents are identified based on the convention described above:</para><para>Table: 1.
 OpenLink Service providers
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Executable Binary File</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Database Engine &amp; Version</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>virt_mv </entry><entry>	OpenLink Virtuoso</entry></row>
<row><entry>inf7_mv </entry><entry>	Informix 7.x (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>inf71_sv </entry><entry>	Informix 7.1 (not Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>inf72_sv 	</entry><entry>Informix 7.2 (not Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>inf73_mv </entry><entry>	Informix 7.3 (not Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>mys3_mv </entry><entry>	MySQL 3.x</entry></row>
<row><entry>oig1_sv 	</entry><entry>OpenIngres 1.x</entry></row>
<row><entry>oig2_sv 	</entry><entry>Ingres II</entry></row>
<row><entry>pgr7_mv </entry><entry>	PostgreSQL 7</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro73c_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 7.3C</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro73e_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 7.3E</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro82a_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.2A</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro82c_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.2C</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro83a_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.3A</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro83b_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.3B</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro90b_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.0B</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro91a_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.1A</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro91b_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.1B</entry></row>
<row><entry>prs91_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 91 SQL-92</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro81as_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.1A small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro82as_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.2A small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro82cs_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.2C small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro83as_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.3A small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro83bs_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 8.3B small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro90bs_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.0B small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro91as_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.1A small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>pro91bs_sv </entry><entry>	Progress 9.1B small (Windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora7_sv </entry><entry>	Oracle 7.x</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora803_mv </entry><entry>	Oracle 8.0.3</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora805_mv </entry><entry>	Oracle 8.0.5</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora81_mv 	</entry><entry>Oracle 8.1.x (8i windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora8i_mv </entry><entry>	Oracle 8i (not windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>ora9i_mv </entry><entry>	Oracle 9i (windows)</entry></row>
<row><entry>sybc10_mv </entry><entry>	Sybase 10.x (CTLib)</entry></row>
<row><entry>sybc11_mv </entry><entry>	Sybase 11.x (CTLib)</entry></row>
<row><entry>sql6_mv 	</entry><entry>Microsoft SQL Server 6.x &amp; 7.x</entry></row>
<row><entry>sql2k_mv </entry><entry>	Microsoft SQL Server 2000</entry></row>
<row><entry>db2_mv 	</entry><entry>DB2</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Specific Agent Information</bridgehead>
<para>In a manner similar to the Request Broker, you can obtain component version, release, and functionality related information about your database agent through your operating system&#39;s command line interface.</para><para>To obtain the information about your database agent simply type in the name of the binary executable file for the relevant agent and the --help switch.
 The example below shows how this is done assuming you are seeking information about the OpenLink Virtuoso database agent:</para><programlisting>virt_sv --help
</programlisting><para> The output returned is depicted below:</para><programlisting>        OpenLink Virtuoso Database Agent
        Version 1.2 (Release 4.0) as of Mon Jul 31 2000 (cvsid 00051).
        Compiled for Linux 2.4.0-test1 (i686-pc-linux-gnu)
        Copyright (C) OpenLink Software.

        Usage:
        virt_sv [-CmijrlLd] [+noautocommit] [+maxrows num] [+initsql arg] [+jetfix] 
	[+norowsetlimit] [+loglevel num] [+logfile arg] [+debug]
        +noautocommit 		turn autocommit off by default
        +maxrows 		maximum allowed rows to fetch
        +initsql 		execute SQL from this file for every connection made
        +jetfix 		Jet Engine Compatibility Features
        +norowset		disable the limit rowsetsize
</programlisting><para> Version - relates to the actual source code archive from which a database agent has been assembled.</para><para>Binary Platform - indicates what platform the database agent has been built to run on.</para><para>Usage - describes the command line options that are to be used with a particular database agent, these can be database agent specific.
 The command line options are to be used within the Database Agent configuration section of &quot;Session Rules Book&quot; (the file oplrqb.ini), this is the section that handles database agent specific items.
 You can add these entries as required to the rule book, you do so by manually editing the rule book file or via the Web based Admin Assistant (see section on Configuring Database Agents).
</para></section></docbook>