<docbook><section><title>OpenLinkCommunicationsLineBroken</title><title> Error Message: OpenLink Communications Line Broken </title> Error Message: OpenLink Communications Line Broken 
<para>&quot;OpenLink Communications Line Broken&quot; errors may occur under a variety of circumstances.
 To resolve these, try the following:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Confirm that your ODBC DSN targets the correct Broker Listen port.
 This is the port on which your OpenLink Request Broker listens, as specified by the <computeroutput>Listen</computeroutput> keyword in the <computeroutput>[Protocol TCP]</computeroutput> stanza of the Broker Rulebook (<computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> by default).
 The default value is 5000.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Do not use port 8000, unless you deliberately configured the Request Broker -- not the Admin Assistant -- to listen on 8000.
</listitem>
<listitem> Do not use the port at which your actual database listens.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Review the Broker Log for any reported errors.
 If the client-side error can be predictably recreated, restart the Broker in DEBUG mode (e.g., oplrqb +debug), and trigger the error while watching stdout.
 Report any error messages you observe here, especially if they are not preserved in the Broker log. </listitem>
<listitem> Check your network for extended intermittent failures. </listitem>
<listitem> If the problem persists, <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">contact OpenLink Product Support</ulink>.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>