<docbook><section><title>OperationNotSupportedOnTransportEndpoint</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (O)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Operation Not Supported on Transport Endpoint</bridgehead>
<para> If you are receiving &quot;Operation not supported on transport endpoint&quot; error messages, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open your server&#39;s /etc/hosts file.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ cd /etc
$ vi hosts
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Locate the IP address which is associated with your server.
 For example:</para><programlisting>83.211.142.99 oplushp2
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Exit /etc/hosts.</para><para>4.
 Ping your server&#39;s hostname.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ ping saturnus
64 bytes from 83.211.142.99: icmp_seq=1. time=0. ms
64 bytes from 83.211.142.99: icmp_seq=2. time=0. ms
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Compare the IP address in /etc/hosts to the IP address returned by ping.
 If the addresses do not match, fix your networking.
 If the addresses do match, take the following action:</para><para>a) Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>b) Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.</para><para>c) Pass your IP address to the IPAddress parameter.
 Remove the semicolon (;).
 For example:</para><programlisting>IPAddress = 83.211.142.99
</programlisting><para> d) Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>e) Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>f) Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log Hosts File</para><para> </para></section></docbook>