<docbook><section><title>PandUStartupParameters</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (#)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">-P and -U Startup Parameters Require _User File Records</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;-P and -U startup parameters&quot; error message appears when the Progress security file has not been configured.
 If your database is password protected, take the following action: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your Progress editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Expand the &quot;Tools&quot; menu.
</listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to Admin &gt;&gt; Security &gt;&gt; Edit User List.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the desired user to the list.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>If you do not secure your database with password protection, remove user names and passwords from your client DSN.
 If the problem persists, Multi-Tier users may need to take the following action: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open the <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file, which you find in the <computeroutput>/bin/</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[generic_proxxx]</computeroutput> section which corresponds to your OpenLink database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[generic_pro82a]
Program = pro82a_sv.exe
Environment = PROGRESS82A
ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31
ReUse = never;
Directory = c:\temp;
;ConnectOptions =
;ReadOnly =
;CommandLine =
;Database =
;UserID =
;Password =
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Remove any semicolons which appear in front of the UserID and Password parameters.
 For example: <programlisting>UserID =
Password =
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker to register the changes.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Data Source Attributes </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Session Rulebook </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>