<docbook><section><title>PreinstallODBCJDBCLiteUnix</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a the ODBC-JDBC Bridge), for Unix-like OS </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a the ODBC-JDBC Bridge), for Unix-like OS 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish a JDBC connection to this database using third-party or native JDBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native JDBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target data source.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> The JDBC driver jar file (or a symbolic link to it) must be included in the active <computeroutput>CLASSPATH</computeroutput>.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Supporting Java libraries (or links to them) may also need to be included in this variable value.
</listitem>
<listitem> Directories containing other supporting libraries may need to be included in one of the other shared library environment variables (e.g., <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using a 64-bit ODBC Driver, you must have a 64-bit JVM.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must be able to connect to the target database using the JDBC driver.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the <emphasis>driver class name</emphasis> of the JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the full details of the <emphasis>JDBC connection URL</emphasis> that connects to your target database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="InstallODBCJDBCLiteUnix">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink>.
</para></section></docbook>