<docbook><section><title>PreinstallODBCLiteWin</title><para> </para><title>Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ADO.NET Provider for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a the .NET-to-ODBC Bridge Provider), for Windows </title>Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ADO.NET Provider for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a the .NET-to-ODBC Bridge Provider), for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish an ODBC connection to this database using third-party or native ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to know whether the client application is 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ADO.NET Provider for ODBC Data Sources must match the bit format of the client application.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess third-party or native drivers that connect to your target database.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as OpenLink&#39;s &quot;Lite&quot; Provider.
</listitem>
<listitem> The local client portion of these drivers must match the bit format of the client application and the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ADO.NET Provider for ODBC Data Sources.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your environment must be configured to enable connectivity using your local ODBC driver.
 We can provide minimal assistance in this area.
 Ideally, you will use your drivers to create a System DSN for maximum compatibility.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the exact name of one or more DSNs that connect to your target data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Proceed to <ulink url="InstallODBCLiteWin">Installation and Configuration</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>