<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerOSXORA</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Documentation</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Multi-Tier Pre-Installation &amp; Configuration Docs</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Pre-Installation Checklist for Request Broker &amp; Oracle  Agents (Mac OS X)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target Oracle DBMS instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleSID">Oracle SID</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleTCPPort">Oracle TCP Port</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLNetOrNetServiceName">Oracle SQL*Net or Net Service Name</ulink>* </listitem>
<listitem> Hostname or IP adddress of Oracle database server</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> An Oracle SQL*Net alias or Net Service Name is only required when the OpenLink serve components are not installed on the Oracle server.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  You will need an installation of the DBMS native client on a supported operating system, if you cannot install OpenLink&#39;s Multi-Tier server components on the same machine as Oracle.
 At the time of writing, this product is called SQL*Net, Net 8, Net 9, and Net 10.
 Product names may vary over time.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> OpenLink&#39;s Request Broker and database-specific Agents must be installed on the same machine as Oracle or an Oracle native client.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know whether the local Oracle or Oracle native client is 32 or 64bit.
 OpenLink&#39;s Request Broker and Agents must share the bit format of the local Oracle or Oracle native client.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are in use on the local OSX machine.
 These ports are used by <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 You will need to allocate different ports for these two services during installation.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>