<docbook><section><title>PreinstallIngresLiteWin32</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Ingres, for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Ingres, for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target Ingres node and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyIngresNodeName">The Ingres node name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyIngresListenAddress">The Ingres listen address</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> The Ingres database name</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to know whether the client application is 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Ingres must match the bit format of the client application.
</listitem>
<listitem> The version-specific Ingres native client or Ingres itself must be installed on the same host as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Ingres.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Ingres II native client may be found on the Ingres install media.
</listitem>
<listitem> The Ingres 3 client is part of the Open Source download kit.
 At the time of writing, many platforms for which Ingres 3 is available were not supplied with pre-compiled library binaries.
</listitem>
<listitem> The local Ingres components must match the bit format of the client application and the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Ingres.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must have a local Ingres <ulink url="ConfigureIngresvnodeWindows">vnode</ulink> configured.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallIngresLiteWin32">Proceed to Installation Documentation</ulink>.
</para></section></docbook>