<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerOSXOBridge</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Documentation</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Multi-Tier Pre-Installation &amp; Configuration Docs</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Pre-Installation Checklist for Request Broker &amp; ODBC to ODBC Bridge Agent Server Agents (Mac OS X)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target ODBC to ODBC Bridge Agent DBMS instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  Your target database must be ODBC and SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish an ODBC connection to this database using third-party or native ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  You must have 3rd-party ODBC drivers that connect to the  target database.
 These drivers must be installed on the local Mac OS X machine.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> OpenLink&#39;s Generic ODBC Bridge agents must be installed on the same machine as third-party ODBC or drivers that connect to the target database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You should configure a System DSN using your 3rd-party ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are in use on the local OS X machine.
 These ports are used by OpenLink&#39;s Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 You will need to allocate different ports for these two services during installation.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>