<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerWin32ORA</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Database Agent(s) for Oracle, for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Database Agent(s) for Oracle, for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target Oracle DBMS instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleSID">Oracle SID</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleTCPPort">Oracle TCP Port</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLNetOrNetServiceName">Oracle SQL*Net or Net Service Name</ulink> <emphasis><emphasis>Only required when the Enterprise Edition server components are not installed on the Oracle server.</emphasis></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Hostname or IP adddress of Oracle database server</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  You will need an installation of the Oracle native client on a supported operating system, if you cannot install the Enterprise Edition server components on the same machine as Oracle itself.
 At the time of writing, this product may be called SQL*Net, Net 8, Net 9, Net 10, the Oracle Instant Client, or the OCI Client, depending on the Oracle version.
 Product names vary over time.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether the local Oracle components are 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Enterprise Edition server components must match the bit format of the local Oracle components, not the OS.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Request Broker and database-specific Agents must be installed on the same machine as Oracle or an Oracle native client.
 If you install on the same machine as Oracle SQL*Net or Net 8/9/10/11, you need an <ulink url="CreateOracleNetServiceNameUnix">Oracle Net Service Name</ulink> configured.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are already in use on the Broker host.
 These ports are the defaults used by our Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 If other services are using these, you will need to assign different (unused) ports to the new services during installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> For best results, the Enterprise Edition server components should be installed while logged in as the local Oracle or Oracle native client owner.
</listitem>
<listitem> All Oracle-related environment variables should be set prior to installation.
 This is typically accomplished simply by logging in as the local Oracle or Oracle native client owner.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="InstallServerWIN32">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink></para></section></docbook>