<docbook><section><title>PreinstallODBCJDBCLiteOSX</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge), for Mac OS X </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge), for Mac OS X 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish a JDBC connection to this database using third-party or native JDBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native JDBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target database.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The JDBC driver jar file (or a symbolic link to it) must be installed in the <emphasis><computeroutput>/Library/Java/Extensions/</computeroutput></emphasis> directory which serves as Mac OS X&#39;s default <computeroutput>CLASSPATH</computeroutput>.
 Supporting libraries (or links to them) may also need to be installed in this directory, or in one of Mac OS X&#39;s default shared library directories (e.g., <computeroutput>/usr/local/lib/</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>/usr/lib/</computeroutput>, etc.).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with our components.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The JRE was part of the default Mac OS X installation, for Cheetah (10.0) through Snow Leopard (10.6).
</listitem>
<listitem> As of Lion (10.7), you may need to manually choose to add Java, but the OS should prompt you to do so when you try to use Java components.
</listitem>
<listitem> All Java software shipped by Apple and installed as part of Mac OS X is compatible.
</listitem>
<listitem> All Java software <ulink url="http://java.com/">obtainable from Oracle</ulink> for Lion (10.7) and later is compatible.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Important note for Snow Leopard (10.6), Leopard (10.5), and Tiger (10.4) users:</emphasis></emphasis> PowerPC-based applications on Intel-based Macs cannot connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge, due to limitations in Mac OS X and its JRE.
 Commonly problematic applications include Microsoft Query as shipped with Microsoft Office:Mac v.X through Microsoft Office:Mac 2011 (upon which Microsoft Excel 2011 and earlier depend), and <ulink url="FileMaker">FileMaker</ulink> Pro v8 and earlier.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> PowerPC-native applications on PowerPC-based Macs can connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge.
</listitem>
<listitem> Intel-native applications, and Universal Binary applications which include Intel-native components, on Intel-based Macs can connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge.
</listitem>
<listitem> PowerPC-based applications on Intel-based Macs can connect through our <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/odbc-jdbc-mt/">Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition</ulink> JDBC Bridge solution.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must be able to connect to the target database using the JDBC driver.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know the <emphasis>driver class name</emphasis> of the JDBC driver.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know the full details of the <emphasis>JDBC connection URL</emphasis> that connects to your target database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallODBCJDBCLiteOSX">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink>.
</para></section></docbook>