<docbook><section><title>PreinstallOracleLiteWin32</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle, for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle, for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target Oracle instance and database:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleSID">Oracle SID</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleTCPPort">Oracle TCP Port</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLNetOrNetServiceName">Oracle SQL*Net or Net Service Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Hostname or IP adddress of Oracle database server</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to know whether the client application is 32-bit or 64-bit.
 The Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle must match the bit format of the client application.
</listitem>
<listitem> The Oracle native client on a supported operating system, if you cannot install the Multi-Tier server components on the same machine as Oracle itself.
 At the time of writing, this product may be called SQL*Net, Net 8, Net 9, Net 10, the Oracle Instant Client, or the OCI Client, depending on the Oracle version.
 Product names vary over time.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must have Oracle client software installed on the same machine as OpenLink&#39;s Lite drivers.
 You can obtain the relevant Oracle client from your Oracle installation CDs.
 You can also download the Oracle client from the Oracle Web site.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Historically, this required installation of Oracle&#39;s SQL*Net or Net8, Net9, or Net10 software.
 These are full client packages for various versions of the Oracle DBMS.
</listitem>
<listitem> As of Release 6.x, when targeting Oracle 8.1.7.4 or later, you only require the Oracle InstantClient.
 The Oracle InstantClient comprises a small set of library files.
</listitem>
<listitem> The local Oracle client components must match the bit format of the client application and the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> You must ensure that the Oracle client software successfully connects to the Oracle DBMS.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> There is minimal configuration associated with use of Oracle&#39;s InstantClients.
 They must appear in the System and User PATH.
</listitem>
<listitem> Oracle&#39;s SQL*Net and Net8/9/10+ products require the configuration of an <ulink url="ConfigureOracleNetServiceNameWindows">Oracle Net Service Name</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallOracleLiteWin32">Proceed to Installation Documentation</ulink>.
</para></section></docbook>