<docbook><section><title>PreinstallODBCJDBCLiteWin32</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a the ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge Driver), for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a the ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge Driver), for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have all information necessary to configure a JDBC connection to the data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You need to know whether the client application is <ulink url="Win32vs64OdbcAdmin">32-bit or 64-bit</ulink>.
 The Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources must match the bit format of the client application.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have JDBC drivers that connect to the target data source.
 The client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Single-Tier (&quot;Lite&quot; Edition) ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have a JVM (Java Virtual Machine) that is compatible with the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for JDBC Data Sources -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using the 32-bit ODBC Driver, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> have the 32-bit JVM, even on 64-bit Windows.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using the 64-bit ODBC Driver, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> have the 64-bit JVM, which is automatically presented only to 64-bit IE but may be manually selected for download using any browser.
</listitem>
<listitem> It is generally best to <emphasis>install both 32-bit JVM and 64-bit JVM</emphasis> on 64-bit Windows.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must know the driver class name of your JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the full details of the JDBC connection URL that connects to your target JDBC Data Source.
</listitem>
<listitem> The path to the directory containing the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput> must be included in your <computeroutput>%PATH%</computeroutput> Environment Variable.
 To do this, proceed as follows -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use the Windows Explorer&#39;s <emphasis>Search</emphasis> feature to locate the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput>, and make note of the directory in which it is found.
 If more than one is found, work with the most recent.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click to the <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis> button.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the <emphasis>System variables</emphasis> pane, locate and select the environment variable named <emphasis><computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput></emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> which will bring up a new dialog containing <emphasis>Variable name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Variable value</emphasis> fields.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the directory path from step #1 to the <emphasis>back end</emphasis> of the already present &quot;Variable value&quot; field, taking care not to delete anything that is already present.
 Directory paths are separated by a semi-colon &#39;;&#39;, so you should usually put a semicolon before the path you&#39;re adding.
 Typically, the new text will resemble -- <programlisting>;C:/Program Files/Java/jre1.6.0_03/bin/client
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Finally, click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to accept the changes.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Your Windows environment must be configured to enable connections using the intended JDBC driver.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
 Particularly, the full path to the JDBC driver <computeroutput>.jar</computeroutput> file must be included in your <computeroutput>%CLASSPATH%</computeroutput> Environment Variable.
 To do this, proceed as follows -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Locate the JDBC DRiver <computeroutput>.jar</computeroutput> file, and make note of the the full path to that file.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click to the <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis> button.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the <emphasis>System variables</emphasis> pane, locate and select the environment variable named <emphasis><computeroutput>CLASSPATH</computeroutput></emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> which will bring up a new dialog containing <emphasis>Variable name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Variable value</emphasis> fields.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the full file path from step #1 to the <emphasis>start</emphasis> of the already present &quot;Variable value&quot; field, taking care not to delete anything that is already present.
 Directory paths are separated by a semi-colon &#39;;&#39;, so you should usually put a semicolon after the path you&#39;re adding.
 Typically, the new text will resemble -- <programlisting>C:/Program Files/JDBC for DBMS/lib/your_driver.jar;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Finally, click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to accept the changes.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallODBCJDBCLiteWin32">Proceed to Installation Documentation</ulink>.</para></section></docbook>