<docbook><section><title>PreInstallServerWin32JBridge</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a, the ODBC/JDBC/ADO.NET-to-JDBC Bridge), for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources (a/k/a, the ODBC/JDBC/ADO.NET-to-JDBC Bridge), for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have all information necessary to configure a JDBC connection to the data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native JDBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target data source.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> Your Windows environment must be configured to enable connections using the intended JDBC driver.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Particularly, the full path to the JDBC driver <computeroutput>.jar</computeroutput> file must be included in your <computeroutput>%CLASSPATH%</computeroutput> Environment Variable.
 To do this, proceed as follows -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Locate the JDBC DRiver <computeroutput>.jar</computeroutput> file, and make note of the the full path to that file.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click to the <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis> button.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the &quot;System variables&quot; pane, locate and select the environment variable named &quot;CLASSPATH&quot; . </listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> which will bring up a new dialog containing <emphasis>Variable name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Variable value</emphasis> fields.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the full file path from step #1 to the <emphasis>start</emphasis> of the already present &quot;Variable value&quot; field, taking care not to delete anything that is already present.
 Directory paths are separated by a semi-colon &#39;;&#39;, so you should usually put a semicolon after the path you&#39;re adding.
 Typically, the new text will resemble -- <programlisting>C:\Program Files\JDBC for DBMS\lib\driver.jar;
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Finally, click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to accept the changes.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Supporting Java libraries (or links to them) may also need to be included in this variable value.
</listitem>
<listitem> Directories containing other supporting libraries may need to be included in one of the other shared library environment variables (e.g., <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> If using a 64-bit JDBC Driver, you must have the 64-bit Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with the Enterprise Edition (Multi-Tier) Request Broker and Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using a 64-bit JDBC Driver, you must have a 64-bit JVM, which is only presented to 64-bit IE.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> The path to the directory containing the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput> must be included in your <computeroutput>%PATH%</computeroutput> Environment Variable.
 To do this, proceed as follows -- <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use the Windows Explorer&#39;s <emphasis>Search</emphasis> feature to locate the <computeroutput>jvm.dll</computeroutput>, and make note of the directory in which it is found.
 If more than one is found, work with the most recent.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Start</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>System</emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> Click to the <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis> tab.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click the <emphasis>Environment Variables</emphasis> button.
</listitem>
<listitem> In the &quot;System variables&quot; pane, locate and select the environment variable named &quot;PATH&quot; . </listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis> which will bring up a new dialog containing <emphasis>Variable name</emphasis> and <emphasis>Variable value</emphasis> fields.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add the directory path from step #1 to the <emphasis>end</emphasis> of the already present &quot;Variable value&quot; field, taking care not to delete anything that is already present.
 Directory paths are separated by a semi-colon &#39;;&#39;, so you should usually put a semicolon before the path you&#39;re adding.
 Typically, the new text will resemble -- <programlisting>;C:\Program Files\Java\jre1.6.0_03\bin\client
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Finally, click <emphasis>OK</emphasis> to accept the changes.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Bridge Agent(s) for JDBC Data Sources must be installed on the same machine as the JDBC drivers that connect to the target database.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know whether TCP ports 5000 and 8000 are already in use on the Broker host.
 These ports are the defaults used by our Request Broker and Web-based Admin Assistant.
 If other services are using these, you will need to assign different (unused) ports to the new services during installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> For best results, the Enterprise Edition server components should be installed while logged in as the owner of the local third-party JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> All JDBC-related environment variables should be set prior to installation.
 This is typically accomplished simply by logging in as the owner of the local third-party JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the driver class name of your JDBC driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the full details of the JDBC connection URL that connects to your target JDBC Data Source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="InstallServerWIN32">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink> </para></section></docbook>