<docbook><section><title>PreinstallOracleLiteUnix</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle, for Unix-like OS </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Oracle, for Unix-like OS 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your target Oracle DBMS:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleSID">Oracle SID</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMyOracleTCPPort">Oracle TCP Port</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLNetOrNetServiceName">Oracle SQL*Net or Net Service Name</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Hostname or IP adddress of Oracle database server</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must have Oracle client software installed on the same machine as OpenLink&#39;s Lite drivers.
 You can obtain the relevant Oracle client from your Oracle installation CDs.
 You can also download the Oracle client from the Oracle Web site.
 Either of the following will work with current versions of the OpenLink Lite drivers -- <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Oracle SQL*Net, Net8, Net9, or Net10 software.
 These are full client packages for various versions of the Oracle DBMS.
</listitem>
<listitem> The Oracle InstantClient.
 The Oracle InstantClient comprises a small set of library files.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> If using SQL*Net or Net8/9/10, you must ensure that this client successfully connects to the Oracle DBMS.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>The Oracle client must be configured to connect to the remote Oracle DBMS.
</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> For Oracle InstantClients, simply ensure that the InstantClient appears in the <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> and the relevant library path.
 On most Unix operating systems, the library path is <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput> but it is <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput> on 32-bit HP/UX, and <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput> on AIX.
</listitem>
<listitem> For Oracle SQL*Net and Net 8/9/10/11+ installations, you must configure an <ulink url="CreateOracleNetServiceNameUnix">Oracle Net Service Name</ulink>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para>Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration -- </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="InstallOracleLiteUnix">for Oracle 10g and later</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="InstallOracle89LiteUnix">for Oracle 9i and earlier</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>