<docbook><section><title>PreInstallSQLExpressOSX</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for Single-Tier &quot;Express&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Microsoft SQL Server, for Mac OS X </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for Single-Tier &quot;Express&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Microsoft SQL Server, for Mac OS X 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<para>You need to know a variety of information pertaining to your Microsoft SQL Server  DBMS:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIFindMySQLServerListenPort">Microsoft SQL Server listen port</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft SQL Server database name </listitem>
<listitem> Microsoft SQL Server database server hostname or IP address</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with our components.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The JRE was part of the default Mac OS X installation, for Cheetah (10.0) through Snow Leopard (10.6).
</listitem>
<listitem> As of Lion (10.7), you may need to manually choose to add Java, but the OS should prompt you to do so when you try to use Java components.
</listitem>
<listitem> All Java software shipped by Apple and/or installed as part of Mac OS X, through Java 6 (a/k/a 1.6), is compatible.
 <emphasis><emphasis>See 64-bit ODBC Application notes below!</emphasis></emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem> All Java software <ulink url="http://java.com/">obtainable from Oracle</ulink> for Lion (10.7) and later, i.e., Java 7 and later, is compatible.
 <emphasis><emphasis>See 32-bit ODBC Application notes below!</emphasis></emphasis></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Important notes for users of 64-bit ODBC Applications:</emphasis></emphasis> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> All Java software shipped by Apple and/or installed as part of Mac OS X, through Java 6 (a/k/a 1.6), is 32-bit only, and can only be used by 32-bit ODBC client applications, including <emphasis>iODBC Administrator.app</emphasis> (found in <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki/Applications/iODBC/</span>).
 If you are using a 64-bit ODBC client application (e.g., Microsoft Excel 2016 or later), you must upgrade to <ulink url="http://java.com/">Java 8 or later from Oracle</ulink>, and then reinstall the Express Edition ODBC Driver.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Important notes for users of 32-bit ODBC Applications:</emphasis></emphasis> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> All Java software <ulink url="http://java.com/">obtainable from Oracle</ulink> for Lion (10.7) and later, i.e., Java 7 and later, is 64-bit only, and can only be used by 64-bit ODBC client applications, including <emphasis>iODBC Administrator64.app</emphasis> (found in <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowiki/Applications/iODBC/</span>).
 If you are using a 32-bit ODBC client application (e.g., Microsoft Excel 2011 or earlier), you must downgrade to <ulink url="http://support.apple.com/kb/DL1572">Java 6 from Apple</ulink>, and then reinstall the Express Edition ODBC Driver.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><emphasis>Important note for Snow Leopard (10.6), Leopard (10.5), and Tiger (10.4) users:</emphasis></emphasis> PowerPC-based applications on Intel-based Macs cannot connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge, due to limitations in Mac OS X and its JRE.
 Commonly problematic applications include Microsoft Query as shipped with Microsoft Office:Mac v.X through Microsoft Office:Mac 2011 (upon which Microsoft Excel 2011 and earlier depend), and <ulink url="FileMaker">FileMaker</ulink> Pro v8 and earlier.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> PowerPC-native applications on PowerPC-based Macs can connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge.
</listitem>
<listitem> Intel-native applications, and Universal Binary applications which include Intel-native components, on Intel-based Macs can connect through our &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC-to-JDBC Bridge.
</listitem>
<listitem> PowerPC-based applications on Intel-based Macs can connect to Microsoft SQL Server through either the <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/st/">Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition</ulink> or <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/mt/">Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition</ulink> drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> There are no software configuration requirements associated with the use of the &quot;Express&quot; Edition ODBC Driver for Microsoft SQL Server.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="InstallSQLExpressOSX">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink>.</para></section></docbook>