<docbook><section><title>ProgressinisFileNotFound</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (P)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Progress.ini file can not be found</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;Progress.ini file can not be found&quot; error occurs when the PROGRESSINI environmental variable is not set.
 If you experience &quot;PROGRESSINI&quot; errors, pursue the remedy which corresponds to your drivers:</para><para> <emphasis>SINGLE-TIER</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Access your PC client.
2.
 Use the Windows Explorer to locate the Progress.ini file.
3.
 Record the full path to progress.ini.
 For example:</para><programlisting>C:\DBS\Progress\progress.ini
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Open your Windows Control Panel &quot;System&quot; utility.
5.
 Set the PROGRESSINI variable on the &quot;Environment&quot; or &quot;Advanced&quot; tab.
6.
 If you do not have the System utility, set PROGRESSINI in your autoexec.bat..
7.
 Test.</para><para> <emphasis>MULTI-TIER</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Go to your Progress database server.</para><para>2.
 Use the Windows Explorer or find (Unix) to locate the Progress.ini file.</para><para>3.
 Record the full path to progress.ini.
 For example:</para><programlisting>C:\DBS\Progress\progress.ini
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file.
 The oplrqb.ini file appears in the /bin sub-directory of the OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>5.
 Locate the [Environment PROGRESSXXX] section which corresponds to the database agent which you use.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
DLC = C:\DBS\Progress
Path = C:\DBS\Progress\BIN;D:\WINNT\System32
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Insure that PROGRESSINI is set to the full path to the progress.ini file.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
DLC = C:\DBS
Path = C:\DBS\Progress\BIN;D:\WINNT\System32
PROGRESSINI = C:\DBS\Progress\progress.ini
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Restart your Broker to initialize changes.</para><para>8.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log </para></section></docbook>