<docbook><section><title>ProgramUnavailable</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (P)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Program Unavailable</bridgehead>
<para> The OpenLink client driver expects to find a running Request Broker.
 Specifically, it will search for the Broker on the machine passed in the Host field of the client DSN.
 If a running Broker is not found, &quot;Remote System&quot; and &quot;Program Unavailable&quot; errors occur.
 If you receive these errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Review your client&#39;s DSN.
 Insure that the Host field passes the hostname or IP address of the machine which contains the OpenLink Request Broker.
 If you are passing the hostname substitute the machine&#39;s IP address.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver = /home/openlink/32bit/v40/lib/oplodbc.sl.1
Description = Sample OpenLink DSN
Host = saturnus
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Insure that the OpenLink Request Broker and Database Agents are installed somewhere on the network.
 Typically, these components are installed on the database server.
 However, they are occasionally installed on client&#39;s and gateways.
 If in doubt, use the Windows Explorer or Unix find command to search for oplrqb.</para><para>3.
 Insure that the Request Broker is running.
 Unix users may start the Broker by running ./oplrqb from the /bin sub-directory of the OpenLink server components installation.
 Windows users may start the Broker with the Control Panel&#39;s Service utility.</para><para>4.
 If the Broker is running, determine if firewalls exist between the client and the machine with the Broker.
 If firewalls exist, take the following action:</para><para>a) Open the oplrqb.ini file which appears in OpenLink /bin sub-directory.
b) Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.
c) Record the values passed to PortLow and PortHigh.
d) Open TCP port&#39;s PortLow through PortHigh on the firewall.
e) Open UDP port #60001 on the firewall.</para><para> 5.
 If firewalls do not exist, determine if multiple network cards have been installed in the machine containing the Broker and agents.
 If multiple network cards exist, take the following action:</para><para>a) Open the oplrqb.ini file which appears in OpenLink /bin sub-directory.
b) Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.
c) Remove the semicolon (;) from IPAddress.
d) Pass one IP address to IPAddress.
 For example:</para><programlisting>IPAddress=83.213.214.97
</programlisting><para> e) Save your changes and exit the file.
f) Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.
g) Pass the same IP Address in the Host field of your client DSN&#39;s.
h) Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book odbc.ini File netstat -a</para><para> </para></section></docbook>