<docbook><section><title>ProgramNotDefinedInSectionX</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (P)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Program not defined in section x</bridgehead>
<para> If you receive &quot;&#39;Program&#39; not defined&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Execute an ls or dir.</para><para>3.
 Take note of the files which end in sv, sv.exe, mv, or mv.exe.
 These files are OpenLink&#39;s agents.
 For example:</para><programlisting>sql6_mv.exe
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file.
 This file resides in the same /bin sub-directory.</para><para>5.
 Locate the section which is referenced by the error.
 (This section corresponds to your OpenLink Database Agent.) For instance:</para><programlisting>[generic_sql7]
Name = generic_sql7
Program =
Environment = SQLSERVER7
ReUse = Never
OpsysLogin = No
Description =
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Pass the name of your Database Agent to the Program parameter.
 For instance:</para><programlisting>Program = sql6_mv.exe
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>6.
 Restart or reinitialize your OpenLink Request Broker.</para><para>7.
 Test.</para><para>Be advised.
 OpenLink Database Agent names reflect the name of the database to which they connect.
 For instance:</para><programlisting>judbc = special JDBC agent
ora81 = Oracle 8
pro = Progress
sql6 = SQL Server
sybc = Sybase (CT Lib)
</programlisting><para> If you cannot identify the appropriate Database Agent, contact OpenLink Product Support.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log</para><para> </para></section></docbook>