<docbook><section><title>ProtocolError</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (P)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Protocol Error</bridgehead>
<para>JDBC &quot;protocol errors&quot; occur when OpenLink&#39;s 1.x or 3.x JAVA clients try to spawn Database Agents.
 These JAVA clients are not designed to interact directly with the Database Agents.
 Instead, 1.x and 3.x clients work through JDBC proxy agents.
 If you receive &quot;protocol errors&quot; take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Insure that you are not passing a OpenLink Database Agent -- or other erroneous value -- to the JDBCAGENT connection string parameter.
 For example:</para><programlisting>JDBCAGENT=jodbc CORRECT
JDBCAGENT=ora8 WRONG
</programlisting><para> 2.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
 Then, locate the [Mapping Rules] portion of the file.
 Finally, insure that you have properly configured your JDBC rules.
 For example:</para><programlisting>jodbc:*:*:java:*:*:* = accept jodbc_client CORRECT
judbc:*:*:java:*:*:* = accept judbc_client CORRECT
jdbc:*:*:java:*:*:* = accept jdbc_client CORRECT

jodbc:*:*:java:*:*:* = accept generic_ora8 WRONG
judbc:*:*:java:*:*:* = accept generic_ora8 WRONG
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Insure that you have not mixed and matched OpenLink 1.x and 3.x with OpenLink 4.x software.
 OpenLink&#39;s 4.0 Java clients utilize a different connection model.
 They can connect directly to 4.0 database agents.
 Version mismatch may cause &quot;protocol&quot; or other connection errors.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>JDBC Connect String Session Rules Book Database Agent Version String</para><para> </para></section></docbook>