<docbook><section><title>ProxyNotAuthorizedToConnectAsClient</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (P)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Proxy not authorized to connect as client</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;proxy&quot; error is associated with Oracle authentication failure.
 If you experience the &quot;proxy&quot; error, insure that you pass the correct Oracle username and password in your Data Sources.
 If the error persists, Multi-Tier users may hardcode the Oracle username and password in the OpenLink Session Rules Book.
 The following instructions assist Multi-Tier users with this task:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file, which you find in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [generic_oraxx] section, which corresponds to your OpenLink database agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_ora81]
Description = Default settings for Oracle 8.1.x agent
Program = ora81_mv
Environment = ORACLE81
ReUse = always
;CommandLine =
;ConnectOptions =
;Directory = /tmp
;Database =
;Userid =
;Password =
;ReadOnly = Yes
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Remove the semicolons in front of Userid and Password.</para><para>4.
 Hardcode the Oracle username and password.
 For example:</para><programlisting>Userid = scott
Password = tiger
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>6.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>7.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Data Source Attributes DBMS Version Request Broker Log</para></section></docbook>