<docbook><section><title>RelinkingProgressDatabaseAgents</title><para> </para><title> Relinking Database Agents for Progress </title> Relinking Database Agents for Progress 
<para>The files described below should all be part of current agent installations.
 If the files discussed below are not found in your installation, you may have an older version of the software.
 In that case, <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">please contact OpenLink Support for additional assistance.</ulink></para><para>We have attempted to provide a set of generic link scripts for the versions of Progress we support, to enable you to relink if necessary.
 <emphasis><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> Relinking is only necessary if you are running a version of Progress which differs from the one originally used for linking the agents shipped.</emphasis></para><para>Please note that to relink against Progress 6 you must have an <emphasis>HLI/C license from Progress.</emphasis> For Progress 7, 8, and 9, this is not required.</para><para>For all relinking, you must have a &#39;<computeroutput>C</computeroutput>&#39; compiler installed on your machine.
 Furthermore, your Progress <computeroutput>DLC</computeroutput> directory must contain a <computeroutput>/probuild/4gl/</computeroutput> sub-directory.</para><para><emphasis>Remember to back up all existing OpenLink files before you begin.</emphasis></para><para>Follow the instructions below to relink an OpenLink Progress Database agent:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Change directory to the &#39;<computeroutput>openlink/lib</computeroutput>&#39; directory.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the Progress environment variable <computeroutput>DLC</computeroutput> is set correctly.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set the Progress <computeroutput>PROLOAD</computeroutput> environment variable to <computeroutput>$DLC/probuild</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run the <computeroutput>mkdlcX</computeroutput> script which will produce a file called <computeroutput>dlcX.o</computeroutput>, where <computeroutput>X</computeroutput> is the major version number of your Progress installation (i.e., 6, 7, 8, or 9).
</listitem>
<listitem> If you receive an error stating that any Progress library cannot be found, edit the <computeroutput>mkdlcX</computeroutput> script and remove the reference to the named file; then rerun the script.
</listitem>
<listitem> Now, run the script <computeroutput>ldproX</computeroutput> which will build a new OpenLink Progress X agent (<computeroutput>proX_sv</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>proX_mv</computeroutput>), which should be placed directly in the &#39;<computeroutput>openlink/bin</computeroutput>&#39; directory.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>