<docbook><section><title>RequestedServerNameNotFound</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (R)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Requested server name not found</bridgehead>
<para> Sybase returns the following lengthy error, when the DSQUERY variable has not been set:</para><programlisting>([Sybase Server]) ct_connect(): directory service layer: internal directory control layer error: Requested server name not found.
</programlisting><para> If you experience &quot;server name&quot; errors, take the action, which corresponds to your drivers:</para><para><emphasis>Multi-Tier Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open your OpenLink Session Rules Book (oplrqb.ini).
 You will find the Session Rules Book in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [Environment SYBASEXX] section which corresponds to your OpenLink Database Agent.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Environment SYBASE12]
DSQUERY = SYBASE
SYBASE = C:\SYBASE
Path = C:\SYBASE\DLL;C:\WINNT\System32
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Insure that the correct value is passed to your DSQUERY variable.
 For example:</para><programlisting>DSQUERY = SATURNUS
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>5.
 Restart your Request Broker.</para><para>6.
 Test.</para><para><emphasis>Single-Tier Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Open your Single-Tier Data Source.</para><para>2.
 Click on the NetLib(Sybase) tab.</para><para>3.
 Locate the Server Name: field.</para><para>4.
 Place the appropriate DSQUERY variable in this Server Name: field.</para><para>5.
 Apply your changes.</para><para>6.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Database .profile DBMS Version Output of set Session Rules Book</para></section></docbook>