<docbook><section><title>ResetAdministrativeAssistantPasswordMulti-Tier</title><title> Changing or Resetting Access Restrictions for the Multi-Tier Request Broker&#39;s Admin Assistant </title> Changing or Resetting Access Restrictions for the Multi-Tier Request Broker&#39;s Admin Assistant 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Changing User Access </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Load the Admin Assistant in a browser.
 The default URL is <ulink url="http://broker-host-or-ip:8000/">http://broker-hostname-or-ip-address:8000/</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Drill down to <emphasis>Server Components Administration</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Admin Assistant Settings</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Configure the List of Users Allowed to use the Admin Assistant</emphasis>.
 When prompted to log in, use the defaults or whatever you&#39;ve set previously.
</listitem>
<listitem> Click <emphasis>Edit</emphasis>, <emphasis>Remove</emphasis>, or <emphasis>Add</emphasis> as appropriate, until the list reflects your intention.
</listitem>
<listitem> Optionally,  drill down to <emphasis>Server Components Administration</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Admin Assistant Settings</emphasis> -&gt; <emphasis>Configure the Admin Assistant&#39;s Remote Access Filters</emphasis>.
 Here you can restrict the IP addresses which may use Web browsers to access the Admin Assistant.
</listitem>
<listitem> When you&#39;ve finished, stop and restart the Request Broker, which will automatically restart the Admin Assistant.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test your new settings.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Resetting to Defaults </bridgehead>
<para>The default username and password of the Multi-Tier Admin Assistant are both <emphasis><computeroutput>admin</computeroutput></emphasis>.
 If you cannot log in with these values, you may have changed them during installation.
 You can reset these through the following steps:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Access the machine which hosts the Multi-Tier server components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open a CMD/DOS or Unix terminal session.
</listitem>
<listitem> Navigate to the <computeroutput>/bin/w3config</computeroutput> sub-directory of the server-side installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Run <computeroutput>setup</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>setup.exe</computeroutput>.
 This program will reset both username and password to the defualt -- i.e., &quot;<emphasis><computeroutput>admin</computeroutput></emphasis>&quot;.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>