<docbook><section><title>RowSetDemoApplet</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"><ulink url="RowSetDemo">RowSetDemo</ulink></bridgehead>
<para>This applet demonstrates JDBC functionality via an Applet.
 It also demonstrates the additional Resultset navigation functionality provided by <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s Scrollable Resultset &amp; <ulink url="RowSet">RowSet</ulink> Extensions for JDBC on a <ulink url="RowSet">RowSet</ulink> by <ulink url="RowSet">RowSet</ulink> Basis.</para><para>Utilization Steps:</para><para>1.
 Start the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Request Broker</para><para>2.
 Start up your Web Browser</para><para>3.
 Enter one of the following URLs into your browser depending on the location of your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Request Broker:</para><para>      Local To you:</para><para>      <ulink url="http://localhost:8000">http://localhost:8000</ulink></para><para>      Remote Server:</para><para>      http:<emphasis><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:hostname:8000      Note:      Port &quot;8000&quot; presumes that you provide this value when prompted during your OpenLink Sever components installation.4.
 Follow the Admin Assistant&#39;s Menu tree to the location of the &quot;Sample Applications-&gt;JDBC Applet Demos&quot; menu item.
 The graphic below depicts this process.  Figure: 8.5.5.1.
 Connection dialog Connection dialog5.
 Click on the hyperlink that reads &quot;Applet demonstration with OpenLink Software JDBC Scrollable Cursor RowSet Extensions&quot;6.
 Use the Applet&#39;s File-&gt;Set Connection URL menu item set a URL pointing to an ODBC or UDBC DSN.
 If uncertain follows the instructions laid out in the section covering OpenLink JDBC URL formats which shows you how to construct Type 1, 2, and 3 URL formats for your OpenLink Drivers for JDBC.
 This applet will run with non OpenLink Drivers for JDBC but you will need to obtain URL construction information from the relevant driver vendor.      The screen shot below depicts the URL construction dialog presented:       Figure: 8.5.5.1.
 URL Construction URL Construction7.      Enter a valid SQL statement for the back end database that you are connecting to via JDBC and then click on the &quot;Query&quot; button.
 The screen shot below depicts this process:       Figure: 8.5.5.1.
 Querying Querying8.
 JDBC 1.1 functionality provides Forward-Only as opposed to Bi-Directional Resultset Scrolling, JDBC 2.0 provides Scrollable Result sets but does not provide Bookmarking or Attached RowSets (transient RowSets located in the same process space as the ResultSet).
 OpenLink&#39;s Scrollable Resultset Extensions for JDBC address these issues irrespective of JDBC version.
 As a result this applet has an additional set of Resultset Navigation buttons when compared to the basic JDBC 2.0 Applet in the prior section, the buttons are: &quot;First&quot;,&quot;Next&quot;, &quot;Prior&quot;,&quot;Last&quot;, &quot;Lock&quot;, &quot;Unlock&quot;, &quot;Add&quot;, &quot;Update&quot;, &quot;Get Bookmark&quot;, &quot;Set Bookmark&quot;, &quot;and Go To&quot; .  The existence of transient RowSets due to Bi-directional Scrollable Result sets (or Cursors) in JDBC 2.0 is more than likely presumed to exist by end-users and developers alike, it is important that you take note of this before embarking upon JDBC 2.0 application development or product selection.
 Each of the buttons in the Applet demo is explained below so as to assist in the understanding of these matters:       Table: 8.5.5.1.
 Scroll Demo Keys Explained Button 	Explanation       First 	takes you to first RowSet in the Resultset       Next 	takes you to the next RowSet in the Resultset from your current position       Prior 	takes you to the previous RowSet in the Resultset from your current position       Last 	takes you to the last RowSet in the Resultset       Lock 	locks the current RowSet       Unlock 	unlocks the current RowSet       Add 	add a new record to database       Update 	change current record with the current RowSet of       Delete 	remove current record from within the current RowSet from the database       Get Bookmark 	mark current RowSet within Resultset for future revisit       Set Bookmark 	revisit previous marked RowSet position in current ResultSet       Go To 	go directly to a specific record number within the current ResultSet       Refresh 	Reopen current resultset </span></emphasis></para></section></docbook>