<docbook><section><title>RulesBookSettingsSecurity</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">[Security]</bridgehead>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Parameter</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Default</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Comment</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>StartupBy </entry><entry>	.* 	</entry><entry>Users who can startup oplrqb</entry></row>
<row><entry>ShutdownBy</entry><entry> 	.* 	</entry><entry>Users who can shutdown oplrqb</entry></row>
<row><entry>ShutdownFrom</entry><entry> 	</entry><entry>localhost.*,127\.0\.0\.1 	Hostnames that can shutdown</entry></row>
<row><entry>ValidUidRange </entry><entry>	0, 50000 </entry><entry>	Valid range for OpSysLogin</entry></row>
<row><entry>TraceRulebook </entry><entry>	  	</entry><entry>Write merged rulebook (debug) Example: /tmp/debug.book</entry></row>
<row><entry>IncludeRulebook</entry><entry> 	  	</entry><entry>Name of file in current directory holding additional rulebook sections. (Example: generic.book). There may be more than one occurance of IncludeRulebook so multiple books can be included. The sections specified in the included files cannot overrule the sections contained in the main broker rulebook. Only unique sections are included.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>The StartupBy, ShutdownBy and ShutdownFrom parameters use full Regular Expressions.
 Separate multiple expressions with a comma.</para><para>Table: 1.
 Regular Expression Examples
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Expression</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Interpretation</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>Comment</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>.* 	</entry><entry>Any character, any number of times </entry><entry>	Any user or location.</entry></row>
<row><entry>localhost.* </entry><entry>	localhost followed by zero or more characters </entry><entry>	Will match: localhost, localhost2, localhost.company.com</entry></row>
<row><entry>127\.0\.0\.1 </entry><entry>	exact IP 127.0.0.1 	</entry><entry>Current machine when HostNameResolver<para>No</para></entry></row>
<row><entry>.*\.company\.com 	</entry><entry>Any text before .company.com 	</entry><entry>Used to match any sub domain of company.com. For example: sales.company.com, john.company.com</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para></section></docbook>