<docbook><section><title>RunningMultipleUDAInstallations</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Upgrades &amp; Pre-Existing Installations</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Running Multiple Versions Simultaneously</bridgehead>
<para>You can run multiple driver versions for comparative and diagnostic purposes.
 Take the following action to proceed:    <emphasis>Single-Tier &amp; Express Edition Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Shutdown your License Manager, if you have OpenLink 6.0 drivers installed.
2.
 Install your new drivers in a separate directory.
3.
 Place your new license files in the /bin sub-directory of the new installation.
4.
 Restart your License Manager, if you have OpenLink 6.0 drivers installed.</para><para> <emphasis>Multi-Tier Drivers</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Shutdown your License Manager, if you have OpenLink 6.0 drivers installed.
2.
 Install your new drivers in a separate directory.
3.
 Place your new license files in the /bin sub-directory of the new installation.
4.
 Restart your License Manager, if you have OpenLink 6.0 drivers installed.
5.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini files that appear in the /bin sub-directories of both Multi-Tier server component installations.
6.
 Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.
 For  example:</para><programlisting>	[Protocol TCP] 
	PingWatchdog = No	  
	PingInterval = 600		
	Listen		 = 5000		 
	PortLow		= 5000	  
	PortHigh	  = 5025
	;IPAddress		= 127.0.0.1	
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Insure that each Listen port references a different, unused TCP/IP port.
 (Use PortLow for OpenLink 1.x-3.x.)</para><para>8.
 Save any changes to the oplrqb.ini files.</para><para>9.
 Start your Request Brokers.</para><para>  The above instructions may not bring success in all scenarios.
 The following issues could present challenges that warrant attention from OpenLink Product Support:</para><para>1.
 Differing Windows driver versions may share the same .dll name.
 This could provide configuration challenges.</para><para>2.
 Some Windows installers may force you to remove an older installation.</para><para>3.
 OpenLink&#39;s 1.x and 3.x use UDP ports to broadcast license information.
 You need to contact Product Support for specialized configuration in this instance.
</para></section></docbook>