<docbook><section><title>SerializationFailure</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (S)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Serialization Failure</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Serialization Failure&quot; errors occur when client and server components come from different builds.
 If you experience &quot;serialization errors&quot;, take the following action:</para><para>I.
 Obtain Your Server Component Version</para><para>A.
 cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
B.
 Run the following command: oplrqb -? C.
 Record the Version, Release, and cvsid information.
 For example:</para><programlisting>Version 2.18 (Release 4.1) as of Mon Jul 23 2001 (cvsid 00057).
</programlisting><para> II.
 Obtain Your Client Components Information</para><para>A.
 Windows Client</para><para>i) Open your ODBC Data Sources utility (Control Panel).
ii) Click on the Drivers tab.
iii) Find the OpenLink Generic 32Bit Driver.
iv) Record the version, date, and file information.</para><para>B.
 Unix/Linux Client</para><para>i) Descend into your client&#39;s ~/openlink/bin directory.
ii) Run the following command: ./oplrqb -? iii) Record the Version, Release, and cvsid information.
iv) If you do not have an ~/openlink/bin directory, contact Product Support</para><para>If your client and server components produce different version information, download the latest client and server components at the same time.
 This will insure version consistency.
 If your components share the same version, contact OpenLink Product Support.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Request Broker Version String</para></section></docbook>