<docbook><section><title>ServerAgentAdminSybase</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Server Agent Administration</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Sybase </bridgehead>
<programlisting>Note:

The Sybase Agent is no longer required, all Sybase connectivity is handled by the TDS Agent.

See: TDS Agent

This section remains purely for reference on previous OpenLink versions
</programlisting><para> When configuring a Sybase database agent the critical configuration items are:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>  Database Identification - this is the name of the Sybase database to be connected to ie pubs2 in the case of the Sybase provided sample database.
 This is the value that you enter into the &quot;Database Name&quot; field of either your Admin Assistant&#39;s database agent configuration form or wizard dialog.
 If you choose to have database identification take at the client rather than server, you enter this value into the &quot;Database Name&quot; field or connection attribute when configuring your OpenLink client.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Sybase provides a number of environment variables for configuring database clients, the basic set required for successfully connecting your database agent to a Sybase database server are tabulated below:</para><para>Table: 1.
 Default Rule Book settings
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Rule Book Section &amp; parameters</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Rule Book Settings</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Notes</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>[Environment SYBASE4]</entry><entry /><entry /></row>
<row><entry>SYBASE</entry><entry>/<para>dbs/sybase4</para></entry><entry>Full path to the base directory for the Sybase installation.</entry></row>
<row><entry>DSQUERY</entry><entry><para>SYBASE</para></entry><entry>Name of the Sybase Query Server that you are connecting to.</entry></row>
<row><entry>[Environment SYBASE10]</entry><entry /><entry /></row>
<row><entry>SYBASE</entry><entry>/<para>dbs/sybase10</para></entry><entry>Full path to the base directory for the Sybase installation.</entry></row>
<row><entry>DSQUERY</entry><entry><para>SYBASE</para></entry><entry>Name of the Sybase Query Server that you are connecting to.</entry></row>
<row><entry>[Environment SYBASE11]</entry><entry /><entry /></row>
<row><entry>SYBASE</entry><entry>/<para>dbs/sybase11</para></entry><entry>Full path to the base directory for the Sybase installation.</entry></row>
<row><entry>DSQUERY</entry><entry><para>SYBASE</para></entry><entry>Name of the Sybase Query Server that you are connecting to.</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<programlisting>Note:

On some systems, like RedHat Linux, if the environment variable LANG=en_US is set it may need to be unset, or the environment variable LC_ALL=default set in the </programlisting><para>RuleBook to avoid RPC:Time Out errors on connect.
 </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Rebuilding Sybase Database Agents</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink provides a relinkable library and script files that enable you to rebuild your database agents as shared, as opposed to statically linked binaries, or for the purposes of getting a closer database implementation fit, should your Sybase database environment be a more recent release than the actual version used by OpenLink to build the database agent installed on your system.
 Please read the Relinking OpenLink Database Agents section that follows, for details on how to perform this task.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Application Server &amp; 3-Tier Architecture Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>There may be situations in which you are unable to install your OpenLink Request Broker and Database Agents on the same machine as the one hosting your Sybase database server.
 Irrespective of the reasons that lead you to this scenario, it is possible to configure your OpenLink database agents hosted on your Application Server machine such that they connect to a remote Sybase database on your Database Server machine using Sybase database specific networking (Open Client) as opposed to OpenLink&#39;s Database Independent Networking.
 The end result being a 3-tier distributed OpenLink architecture in which the communication between OpenLink clients and database agents use OpenLink Database independent Networking, while the communication between the Sybase database agent and the Sybase database server uses Sybase Open Client.</para><para>Configuration Steps:</para><para>Assuming you have an Sybase Database Server machine called &quot;mainserver2&quot; that has an Sybase Server named &quot;mainserver2&quot; up and running:</para><para>1.
 On your Application Server (the machine hosting your database agents) create an Open Client Database Connection Alias named &quot;mainserver2&quot; (for purposes of this example only).</para><para>2.
 Ensure that you have a usable connection to the remote Sybase database server using the Open Client Database alias &quot;mainserver2&quot;</para><para>3.
 Add the following values to the &quot;Server Options&quot; field within the Admin Assistant Forms or Wizards used to configure your database agent.
 If you choose to set this value on the client simply enter the same value into to the &quot;Database Name&quot; Attribute associated with the configuration of your OpenLink client (see OpenLink ODBC or JDBC or UDBC client configuration for more details):</para><programlisting>      mainserver2
</programlisting><para>       You may also enter the following values into the &quot;Database Server Options&quot; field: -s mainserver2</para><programlisting>See Also:

Application Server Architecture for various illustrations of distributed client-server architectures supported by </programlisting><para>OpenLink database agent
 </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Unicode Configuration</bridgehead>
<para>See the <ulink url="UnicodeSection">Unicode section</ulink> for configuration details.
</para></section></docbook>