<docbook><section><title>ServerAgentAdminPostgreSQL</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Server Agent Administration</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> PostgresSQL </bridgehead>
<para> Table: 1.
 Default Rule Book settings
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Rule Book Section &amp; parameters</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Default Rule Book Settings</emphasis></entry><entry><emphasis>Notes</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>[Environment POSTGRES]</entry><entry /><entry /></row>
<row><entry>;ODBC_CATALOGS</entry><entry>Y</entry><entry><para>Uncomment after loading odbccat defs</para></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Agent Section</para><para>OpSysLogin<computeroutput>=</computeroutput> Yes; Users are validated against the operating system.</para><para>The following options can be used in the ConnectOptions field of the rule book (oplrqb.ini) to override client Options settings:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis> -H</emphasis> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:hostname Connect to postmaster on .
 This defaults to localhost if unspecified</span></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>-P</emphasis> <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:port Contact postmaster on port , which defaults to PGPORT (5432) is unspecified.</span></listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>-T</emphasis> Disable ODBC transaction management.
 All transactions will be automatically committed.
 This prevents palloc() failures with out-of-memory errors when doing really big transactions such as Exporting 10000 records from MS/Access.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Database Agent default name: pgr7_mv (or pgr7_sv which is single threaded)</para><para>This ODBC database agent has been built using PostgreSQL release 7.2.
 Using this agent with a previous version of Postgres will probably fail.
 If you experience any problems with older releases, please try against release 7.2 first before contacting OpenLink.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Data type Mapping from ODBC Data types to Postgres Data types</bridgehead>
<para>This information can be queried by the SQLTypeInfo catalog call.</para><para>Table: 2.
 Default Rule Book settings
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>SQL type</emphasis> </entry><entry><emphasis>	Postgres type</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_CHAR </entry><entry>	char</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_VARCHAR </entry><entry>	varchar</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_LONGVARCHAR </entry><entry>	text</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_DECIMAL </entry><entry>	varchar</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_NUMERIC </entry><entry>	varchar</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_BIT </entry><entry>	bit</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_TINYINT </entry><entry>	int2</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_SMALLINT </entry><entry>	int2</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_INTEGER </entry><entry>	int4</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_BIGINT </entry><entry>	varchar</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_REAL </entry><entry>	float4</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_DOUBLE </entry><entry>	float8</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_FLOAT 	</entry><entry>float8</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_BINARY </entry><entry>	not supported</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_VARBINARY </entry><entry>	not supported</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_LONGVARBINARY </entry><entry>	not supported</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_DATE </entry><entry>	not supported</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_TIME </entry><entry>	not supported</entry></row>
<row><entry>SQL_TIMESTAMP</entry><entry> 	not supported</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Data type Mapping from Postgres Data types to ODBC Data types</bridgehead>
<para>This information can be queried by the SQLColumns catalog call.</para><para>Table: 3.
 Default Rule Book settings
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry><emphasis>Postgres type</emphasis> </entry><entry>	<emphasis>SQL type 	Precision</emphasis></entry></row>
<row><entry>bool 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	1</entry></row>
<row><entry>char 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	1</entry></row>
<row><entry>name 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	32</entry></row>
<row><entry>char16 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	16</entry></row>
<row><entry>int2 	</entry><entry>SQL_SMALLINT </entry></row>
<row><entry>int4 	</entry><entry>SQL_INTEGER 	</entry></row>
<row><entry>regproc 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	16</entry></row>
<row><entry>text 	</entry><entry>SQL_LONGVARCHAR 	8000</entry></row>
<row><entry>oid 	</entry><entry>SQL_INTEGER 	(*)</entry></row>
<row><entry>tid 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	19</entry></row>
<row><entry>xid 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	12</entry></row>
<row><entry>cid 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	3</entry></row>
<row><entry>oid8 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	89</entry></row>
<row><entry>smgr 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	12</entry></row>
<row><entry>char2 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	2</entry></row>
<row><entry>char4 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	4</entry></row>
<row><entry>char8 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	8</entry></row>
<row><entry>filename 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	255</entry></row>
<row><entry>float4 	</entry><entry>SQL_REAL 	</entry></row>
<row><entry>float8 	</entry><entry>SQL_DOUBLE</entry></row>
<row><entry>abstime 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	60</entry></row>
<row><entry>reltime 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	60</entry></row>
<row><entry>tinterval 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	60</entry></row>
<row><entry>unknown </entry><entry>	SQL_VARCHAR 	255</entry></row>
<row><entry>bpchar 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	255</entry></row>
<row><entry>varchar 	</entry><entry>SQL_VARCHAR 	255</entry></row>
<row><entry>date 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	10</entry></row>
<row><entry>time 	</entry><entry>SQL_CHAR 	16</entry></row>
<row><entry>other type</entry><entry> 	SQL_LONGVARCHAR 	8000</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>(*) Note: An oid is returned as a SQL_INTEGER, because otherwise it would not be useable for SQLSpecialColumns.</para><para>Binary data / large objects are not supported in this release.</para></section></docbook>