<docbook><section><title>SessionRulesExecutionProcess</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">OpenLink Session Rules Administration &amp; Configuration Guide</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Session Rules Execution Process</bridgehead>
<para>When an OpenLink Client makes contact with an OpenLink Request Broker a series of events occur culminating in the identification and execution of a session rule.
 The step as follow guide you through this process:</para><para>1.
 Request Broker receives session request from one or more OpenLink Clients (Drivers for ODBC, UDBC, JDBC, OLE-DB).</para><para>2.
 Request Broker parses the session request data stream received from the relevant OpenLink Client isolating each OpenLink Connection Attribute type and associated attribute values.</para><para>3.
 Request Broker then performs a regular expression search through the rule book looking for Session Aliases that match the parsed OpenLink Connection Attributes.</para><para>4.
 For each OpenLink Connection Attribute that the Request Broker find a matching Session Alias it determines if the Alias has a non NULL assigned value, if this is true the OpenLink Connection Attribute values are reassigned to those of the matching Session Alias, otherwise they retain their existing values.</para><para>5.
 Request Broker then performs a regular expression search using a combination of all the OpenLink Connection Attributes across the session rules books &quot;Mapping Rules&quot; template.</para><para>6.
 The Request Broker scans through each &quot;Mapping Rule&quot; in ascending order, If it finds a &quot;Mapping Rule&quot; match it then applies the matching rule to the appropriate Client Session request, otherwise it reports an error condition back to the OpenLink client.</para><para>7.
 When a &quot;Mapping Rules&quot; occurs the Request Broker evaluates the &quot;Mapping Rule&quot;.
 This evaluation results in the Acceptance or Rejection of an OpenLink Client request.</para><para>8.
 OpenLink Client request acceptance results in the OpenLink Clients session request being associated with an OpenLink Agent template, this template then applies all of its attribute Attributes to the OpenLink Agent Configuration process.</para><para>9.
 Session Rules rejection results in a user/administrator definable error message being relayed back to the OpenLink Client.</para><para>10.
 OpenLink Session is fully initialized.
 This means that the OpenLink Client and Server (agents) components are now linked and operating in a connected state.</para><para>11.
 OpenLink Agent evaluates subsequent OpenLink Client session requests to see if they are in line with the ReUse attribute of its Agent Configuration template.
</para></section></docbook>