<docbook><section><title>SetIsolationLevels</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Set Isolation Levels</bridgehead>
<para>You may use OpenLink&#39;s +initsql parameter to change your database isolation level.
 The following instructions will assist you with this task:</para><para>1.
 Insure that your database supports the operation which you want to implement.
 Verify the syntax which that database will accept.</para><para>2.
 Create a file in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
 This file should contain only the isolation level syntax.
 For example:</para><programlisting>-Dsrv TXN_ISOLATION, SERIALIZABLE 
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Open the oplrqb.ini file which resides within the same /bin sub-directory.</para><para>4.
 Locate the [generic_XXXXX] section which corresponds to the database agent which you use.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[generic_inf7]
Program     = inf7_mv.exe
Environment = INFORMIX7
OpsysLogin  = Yes
ReUse       = always
;Directory 	= c:\temp
;ConnectOptions =
;ReadOnly	=
;CommandLine =
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Locate the &quot;CommandLine&quot; parameter, and pass the file which you have created.
 For example:</para><programlisting>CommandLine = +initsql yourisolationfile 
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Remove any semicolon (;) which may appear in front of CommandLine.</para><para>7.
 Save your changes and exit the oplrqb.ini file.</para><para>8.
 Restart the OpenLink Request Broker by typing the following commands from the same /bin sub-directory:</para><programlisting>./oplshut         
./oplrqb +loglevel 7 +logfile oplrqb.log 
</programlisting><para> 9.
 Test.
</para></section></docbook>