<docbook><section><title>SingleTierInstallQuickstartUnixIngres</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> OpenLink Single-tier Components (*nix) for Ingres</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Aims and Intentions</bridgehead>
<para>This guide is intended to enable competent system administrators to install and configure OpenLink Multi-tier client side components on *nix style operating systems in a few steps as possible.</para><para>This guide does not explain any of the non-pertinent features encountered along the way.
 Such explanations may be found in the full documentation.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix shell.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix editor such as vi </listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be in possession of relevant database connectivity details such as Database name, Username, password, etc.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> have installed, and available; a full installation of Ingres Net and the Ingres Name Server Started.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> have configured an Ingres Net vNode (using netutil) if connectivity is to a remote database.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Installation</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log onto the machine and create a suitable OpenLink installation directory &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt; </listitem>
<listitem> Copy all relevant components to &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt; At bare minimum, these will be the OpenLink ODBC Driver for Ingres, OpenLink Http Administration Assistant and OpenLink license file. </listitem>
<listitem> Install using the &quot;install.sh&quot; shell script -- <programlisting> #sh install.sh

</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You should take care to enter correct information when prompted pertaining to ports, passwords, etc and ensure that you note these down for future use. </listitem>
<listitem> The installation should finish without error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Environment</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/openlink.sh with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate the section that deals with the location of shared libraries pertaining to your system (LD_LIBRARY_PATH, LIBPATH or SHLIB_PATH) and add to it the location of your Ingres lib directory -- <programlisting> 
 LD_LIBRARY_PATH=&quot;&lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib:/ingres/ingres/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH&quot;
  
</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Driver Specific</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/openlink.ini with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate the [Environment Ingres II] section that deals with the driver specific Ingres configuration and edit to reflect your Ingres installation -- <programlisting> 
 [Environment Ingres II]
 II_SYSTEM          = /ingres/
 II_DATE_FORMAT     = US
 ING_SET            = set lockmode session where readlock=nolock
 CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW        ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql

</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Data Souce</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/bin/odbc.ini with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate and edit the sample OpenLink ODBC data source (DSN) created during the installation process and edit as follows--<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample Ingres Data Source (database on same machine)</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting> 
 [ingres]
 Driver            = &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib/ingii_mt_lt.so
 ServerType        = Ingres II
 Username          = ingres
 Password          = **********
 Database          = database
 FetchBufferSize   = 99
 ReadOnly          = No
 JetFix            = No
 NoRowSetSizeLimit = No
 NoAutoCommit      = No
 NoLoginBox        = No
 Description       = Sample Ingres II Lite Connection

</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample Ingres Data Source (remote database using vNode)</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting> 
 [ingres]
 Driver            = &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib/ingii_mt_lt.so
 ServerType        = Ingres II
 Username          = ingres
 Password          = **********
 Database          = vnode::database
 FetchBufferSize   = 99
 ReadOnly          = No
 JetFix            = No
 NoRowSetSizeLimit = No
 NoAutoCommit      = No
 NoLoginBox        = No
 Description       = Sample Ingres II Lite Connection

</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Testing</bridgehead>
<para> Use the <computeroutput>iodbctest</computeroutput> tool which is packaged with the HTTP-based OpenLink ODBC Administrator as follows -- </para><programlisting> 
 #cd &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;
 #. ./openLink.sh
 # iodbctest ingres
 iODBC Demonstration program
 This program shows an interactive SQL processor
 Driver Manager: 03.52.0507.0105
 Driver: 06.02.1217 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (oplodbc.so) 

 SQL&gt;

</programlisting><para> You should now be able to issue SQL statements directly against the target database.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Additional Information</bridgehead>
</para></para></para></para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The bitness of the ODBC Driver for DB2 is determined by the bitness of your ODBC client application.That is, if your ODBC client application is 32-bit then the Generic ODBC Driver component <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> also be 32-bit.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>