<docbook><section><title>SingleTierLiteJDBCPreinstallWin32</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Lite Edition (Single-Tier) JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a JDBC-to-ODBC Bridge), for Windows </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Lite Edition (Single-Tier) JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a JDBC-to-ODBC Bridge), for Windows 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish a ODBC connection to this database using third-party or native ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native ODBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target database.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have a <emphasis>JVM (Java Virtual Machine)</emphasis> that is compatible with OpenLink software.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Generally, the latest JVM from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> is the best choice.
</listitem>
<listitem> If targeting a 64-bit ODBC Driver, you must have the 64-bit JVM, which is only automatically presented to 64-bit web browsers.
</listitem>
<listitem> It is often best to install both 32-bit JVM and 64-bit JVM on 64-bit Windows, but you must take care that the <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> and other environment variables are set correctly (i.e., to load all 32-bit or all 64-bit) for each tool.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The third-party or native ODBC driver must successfully connect to the target database.
 For best results, at least one System DSN should be defined to make such connections.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the exact name of the DSN(s), or know the complete ODBC Connect String, that connects to the target data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> JDBC Client Application-specific Notes </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="JDBCTrueShipReadyShipper">TrueShip ReadyShipper</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="SingleTierLiteJDBCInstallWin32">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink>.</para></section></docbook>