<docbook><section><title>SingleTierInstallQuickstartUnixOracle</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> OpenLink Single-tier Components (*nix) for Oracle</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Aims and Intentions</bridgehead>
<para>This guide is intended to enable competent system administrators to install and configure OpenLink Multi-tier client side components on *nix style operating systems in a few steps as possible.</para><para>This guide does not explain any of the non-pertinent features encountered along the way.
 Such explanations may be found in the full documentation.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix shell.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be proficient in using a Unix editor such as vi </listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> be in possession of relevant database connectivity details such as Database name, Username, password, etc.
</listitem>
<listitem> You <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> have installed, and available either; a full installation of Oracle, Oracle Client or Oracle Instant Client (release 6.x only).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Installation</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log onto the machine and create a suitable OpenLink installation directory &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt; </listitem>
<listitem> Copy all relevant components to &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt; At bare minimum, these will be the OpenLink ODBC Driver for Oracle, OpenLink Http Administration Assistant and OpenLink license file. </listitem>
<listitem> Install using the &quot;install.sh&quot; shell script -- <programlisting> #sh install.sh

</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You should take care to enter correct information when prompted pertaining to ports, passwords, etc and ensure that you note these down for future use. </listitem>
<listitem> The installation should finish without error.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Configuration</bridgehead>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Environment</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/openlink.sh with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate the section that deals with the location of shared libraries pertaining to your system (LD_LIBRARY_PATH, LIBPATH or SHLIB_PATH) and add to it the location of your Informix lib and lib/esql directories -- <programlisting> 
 LD_LIBRARY_PATH=&quot;&lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib:/oracle/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH&quot;
  
</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Driver Specific</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/openlink.ini with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate the [Environment Oracle xxx] section that deals with the driver specific Oracle configuration and edit to reflect your Oracle installation -- <programlisting> 
 [Environment Oracle 10.x]
 ORACLE_HOME        = /oracle/
 ;ORACLE_SID         = ORCL
 ;ORACLE_SERVER          = T
 ;TWO_TASK               = P:
 ;ODBC_CATALOGS          = Y     ; Uncomment after loading odbccat10.sql
 ;MULTIPLEX_LDA          = 5     ; Allow 5 OpenLink clients on a single lda
 ;OPL_USR_TBLS_FIRST     = Y     ; Sort SQLTables starting with user tables
 SHOW_REMARKS       = N  ; Retrieve SQLColumns REMARKS field
 CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW        ; Set to HIGH after loading odbccat10.sql
 ;OCI_PREFETCH_ROWS      = 100   ; Number of rows to prefetch
 ;OCI_PREFETCH_MEMORY    = 65535 ; Amount of memory to use for prefetching
 ;NLS_LANG               = AMERICAN_AMERICA.UTF8 ; Unicode connection

</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Data Souce</bridgehead>
<para> Open the file &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/bin/odbc.ini with a suitable text editor such as vi. Locate and edit the sample OpenLink Oracle ODBC data source (DSN) created during the installation process and edit as follows--<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample Oracle 10 Data Source (Full client)</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting> 
 [oracle]
 Driver            = &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib/ora100_mt_lt.so
 ServerType        = Oracle 10.x
 Options           = &lt;TNSName&gt;
 Username          = &lt;scott&gt;
 Password          = &lt;**********&gt;
 FetchBufferSize   = 99
 ReadOnly          =
 DeferLongFetch    =
 JetFix            = No
 Description       = Sample Oracle 10.x Lite Connection

</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Sample Oracle 10 Data Source (Instant client - OpenLink release 6.x only)</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting> 
 [oracle]
 Driver            = &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;/lib/ora100_mt_lt.so
 ServerType        = Oracle 10.x
 Options           = //&lt;oracle.hostname&gt;/&lt;TNSName&gt;
 Username          = &lt;scott&gt;
 Password          = &lt;**********&gt;
 FetchBufferSize   = 99
 ReadOnly          =
 DeferLongFetch    =
 JetFix            = No
 Description       = Sample Oracle 10.x Lite Connection

</programlisting><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Testing</bridgehead>
<para> Use the <computeroutput>iodbctest</computeroutput> tool which is packaged with the HTTP-based OpenLink ODBC Administrator as follows -- </para><programlisting> 
 #cd &lt;OPENLINK_INSTALL&gt;
 #. ./openLink.sh
 # iodbctest oracle
 iODBC Demonstration program
 This program shows an interactive SQL processor
 Driver Manager: 03.52.0507.0105
 Driver: 06.02.1217 OpenLink Generic ODBC Driver (ora100_mt_lt.so) 

 SQL&gt;

</programlisting><para> You should now be able to issue SQL statements directly against the target database.<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Additional Information</bridgehead>
</para></para></para></para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The bitness of the ODBC Driver for Oracle is determined by the bitness of your ODBC client application.That is, if your ODBC client application is 32-bit then the Generic ODBC Driver component <emphasis>MUST</emphasis> also be 32-bit.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>