<docbook><section><title>SingleTierLiteJDBCPreinstallMac</title><para> </para><title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Lite Edition (Single-Tier) JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a JDBC-to-ODBC Bridge), for Mac OS X </title> Pre-Installation Requirements for the Lite Edition (Single-Tier) JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources (a/k/a JDBC-to-ODBC Bridge), for Mac OS X 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> DBMS Requirements </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Your target data source must be SQL compliant.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must possess enough knowledge to establish a ODBC connection to this database using third-party or native ODBC drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Software Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> You must possess <emphasis>third-party or native ODBC drivers</emphasis> that connect to your target database.
 A client portion of these drivers must be installed on the same machine as the Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition JDBC Driver for ODBC Data Sources.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must have a <emphasis>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</emphasis> that is compatible with OpenLink software.
 (All Java software shipped by Apple and installed as part of Mac OS X is compatible.
 The JRE is part of the default Mac OS X installation.)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Configuration Requirements</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The third-party or native ODBC driver must successfully connect to the target database.
 For best results, at least one System DSN should be defined to make such connections.
 OpenLink Product Support can provide minimal assistance in this area.
</listitem>
<listitem> You must know the exact name of the DSN(s), or know the complete ODBC Connect String, that connects to the target data source.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Next...
 </bridgehead>
<para> <ulink url="SingleTierLiteJDBCInstallMac">Proceed to Installation &amp; Configuration</ulink>.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>