<docbook><section><title>SpecifiedDriverCouldNotBeLoaded</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (S)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Specified driver could not be loaded</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;Specified driver&quot; message suggests environment or driver name problems.
 If you receive &quot;specified driver&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client installation.
2.
 Run one of the following commands:</para><programlisting>. ./openlink.sh //For Bourne and Bash shells
source openlink.csh //For C shells
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Run the following command:</para><programlisting>echo $ODBCINI
</programlisting><para> If ODBCINI is set, test your connection.
 If ODBCINI is not set, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 cd into the root directory of your OpenLink client installation.
2.
 vi openlink.sh or openlink.csh.
3.
 Record the variables set in the file.
4.
 Set the variables on your command line.
 For example:</para><programlisting>export ODBCINI=/usr/openlink/bin/odbc.ini
export ODBCINSTINI=/usr/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini
export UDBCINI=/usr/openlink/bin/udbc.ini
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Test your connection.</para><para>If the problem persists, open your odbc.ini file.
 You will find this file in the /bin sub-directory of your client&#39;s OpenLink installation.
 Then, find your DSN.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver = /usr/openlink/lib/oplodbc.sl.1
Description = Sample OpenLink DSN
Host = nkhatam
ServerType = SQLServer 7
FetchBufferSize = 99
UserName = sa
Password =
Database = Northwind
</programlisting><para> Next, insure Driver</para><para> passes the full path to oplodbc.so.x or oplodbc.sl.x.
 The oplodbc.so.x or oplodbc.sl.x file is the driver file.
 It appears in the /lib sub-directory of your client&#39;s OpenLink installation.
 The file&#39;s extensions (.so/.la) and versions (.x) vary.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Name of .taz files odbc.ini File Output of set uname -a </para></section></docbook>