<docbook><section><title>STDSNLessStrings</title><para> </para><title> DSN-less ODBC Connect String Details for Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition Drivers </title> DSN-less ODBC Connect String Details for Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition Drivers 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Common to all Lite Edition Drivers </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>NoAutoCommit</computeroutput></emphasis> — Tells the driver whether to treat each SQL statement as its own transaction (&quot;No&quot;), or to treat the entire database session as a single transaction (&quot;Yes&quot;).
 The latter setting allows the client application to manage transactions itself.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Jet</computeroutput></emphasis> — Enable Microsoft Jet Engine compatibility features.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>NoRowSetSizeLimit</computeroutput></emphasis> — Set no restriction on result set sizes, permitting Cartesian products, among other possible issues.
 Acceptable values are <computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>No</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>IntialSQL</computeroutput></emphasis> — Points to a file containing one or more SQL statements to be executed against the Database on connect.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Database or Driver Specific </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> DB2 </bridgehead>
<para>There are no DB2-specific connection attributes.
 See previous section for common parameters.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Informix </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Protocol</computeroutput></emphasis> — Informix protocol identifier.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Service</computeroutput></emphasis> — Service name or port number as found in the <computeroutput>/etc/services</computeroutput> file.
 If not listed in the <computeroutput>/etc/services</computeroutput> file, must specify by port number.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Host</computeroutput></emphasis> — hostname of the machine hosting the Informix server.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>InfServer</computeroutput></emphasis> — Name of the Informix server.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> — name of the database on the Informix server.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>MultiSess</computeroutput></emphasis> — Yes/No - Multiplex Session.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Ingres and Open Ingres </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> — name of the database alias.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>IngServer</computeroutput></emphasis> — <computeroutput>&lt;vnode&gt;::&lt;dbname&gt;</computeroutput>.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Microsoft SQL Server (TDS) </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSHost</computeroutput></emphasis> — The IP address or alias name of the SQL Server host.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSPort</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TCP port number the SQL Server instance is listening at </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSVer</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TDS Protocol version for the the <ulink url="TDSVersionsExplained">target  SQL Server instance</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSDBase</computeroutput></emphasis> — The name of the SQL Server Database</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> My SQL </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Host</computeroutput></emphasis> — The IP address or hostname of the machine hosting MySQL.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Port</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TCP port number the MySQL instance is listening on.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> — The name of the MySQL database you are connecting to.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Oracle </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>OraCatalogs</computeroutput></emphasis> — Yes/No.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>QuotedIdentifiers</computeroutput></emphasis> — Yes/No.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>SQLNETConnect</computeroutput></emphasis> — SQL*Net connect string usually just the TNS name.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>SQLNETInterface</computeroutput></emphasis> — Interface DLL or AutoScan for Driver self determination.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Postgre SQL </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Host</computeroutput></emphasis> — The IP address or hostname of the machine hosting PostgreSQL.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Port</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TCP port number the PostgreSQL instance is listening on.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Database</computeroutput></emphasis> — The name of the PostgreSQL database you are connecting to.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Progress </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>Options</computeroutput></emphasis> — Valid Progress connection options.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TableView</computeroutput></emphasis> — Full path and filename of the <ulink url="ConfigureProgressTableview">tableview file</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>ServerOptions</computeroutput></emphasis> — Valid Progress server options.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>SQLNETInterface</computeroutput></emphasis> — Interface DLL or <computeroutput>AutoScan</computeroutput> for Driver self determination.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Sybase ASE/ASA (TDS) </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSHost</computeroutput></emphasis> — The IP address or alias name of the Sybase host.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSPort</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TCP port number the Sybase instance is listening at </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSVer</computeroutput></emphasis> — The TDS Protocol version for the <ulink url="TDSVersionsExplained">target Sybase instance</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><computeroutput>TDSDBase</computeroutput></emphasis> — The name of the Sybase schema.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>