<docbook><section><title>SupplemtaryINF</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Supplementary Pre-Install &amp; Configuration Resources By Database </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Informix </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="DoOpenLinkDriversConnectToInformix">Do OpenLink drivers connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhichVersionsOfInformixAreSupportedByOpenLinkDrivers">Which versions of Informix are supported by OpenLink drivers?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIDetectMyInformixDBMSVersion">How can I detect my Informix DBMS version?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatIsTheInformixNativeClient">What is the Informix native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhenDoINeedTheInformixNativeClient">When do I need the Informix native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhereCanIGetTheInformixNativeClientAkaInformixConnectInformix-NetI-Net">Where can I get the Informix native client (a.k.a &quot;Informix Connect&quot;, &quot;Informix-Net&quot; &quot;I-Net&quot;)?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIConfigureTheInformixNativeClient">How do I configure the Informix native client?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateASingle-TierDSNToConnectToInformix">How do I create a Single-Tier DSN to connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAStandard2-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToInformix">How do I create a standard (2-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAnApplicationServer3-TierMulti-TierDSNToConnectToInformix">How do I create an application server (3-Tier) Multi-Tier DSN to connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType1URLToConnectToInformix">How do I create a JDBC Type 1 URL to connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoICreateAJDBCType3URLToConnectToInformix">How do I create a JDBC Type 3 URL to connect to Informix?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheINFORMIXDIREnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the INFORMIXDIR environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="WhatValueDoesTheINFORMIXSERVEREnvironmentVariablePass">What value does the INFORMIXSERVER environment variable pass?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowDoIMonitorOpenDatabaseSessionsAssociatedWithInformixODBCConnections">How do I monitor open database sessions associated with Informix ODBC connections?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyInformixInstanceName">How can I find my Informix instance name?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanITellIfInformixIsStartedInSocketsOrSharedMemory">How can I tell if Informix is started in sockets or shared memory?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyInformixTcpServiceName">How can I find my Informix tcp service name?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyInformixTcpPortNumber">How can I find my Informix tcp port number?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyInformixDatabaseServerHostnameOrIPAddress">How can I find my Informix database server hostname or IP address?</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="HowCanIFindMyInformixDatabaseName">How can I find my Informix database name?</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>