<docbook><section><title>SybaseUnicodeConfig</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Database Configuration for Unicode</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Sybase 12.5 +</bridgehead>
<para>The pre-requisites for Unicode with Sybase are:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Sybase Active Server (ASE) Version 12.5 or later.
 (Unicode support is NOT enabled for Version 12.0); </listitem>
<listitem> Default character set for the Sybase Server needs to be &quot;UTF-8&quot;.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>To set this:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Make sure the Sybase SQL Server is not running.
 (Cancel it from the &quot;Services&quot; screen).
</listitem>
<listitem> Run &quot;Server Configuration&quot; from the &quot;Sybase&quot; entry in the Task Menu bar, or run SYCONFIG.EXE directly; </listitem>
<listitem> Either Create a new Active Server or Configure an existing Active Server.
 (Selection is via Pushbuttons on the dialog box); </listitem>
<listitem> For either method, select the &quot;Language&quot; pushbutton; </listitem>
<listitem> Select the &quot;Character Set&quot; pushbutton; </listitem>
<listitem> Select the &quot;Set Default&quot; pushbutton; </listitem>
<listitem> Select &quot;Unicode 3.0.1 UTF-8&quot; from the list box.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>If this entry is not available, you will have to add it.
 From the Character Set selection dialog box, select the &quot;Add / Delete&quot; pushbutton.
 Select the character set from the list box of those available.
 Select the &quot;Add&quot; pushbutton (or the &quot;Add All&quot; pushbutton to make all character sets available).
 Select OK.
 Once the default character set has been selected, select &quot;OK&quot; and &quot;Exit&quot;.
 Start (or restart) the Sybase SQL-Server.
</para></section></docbook>