<docbook><section><title>TheSharedLibraryLoaderCannotBeActivatedForThisProcess</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (T)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">The shared library loader cannot be activated for this process</bridgehead>
<para> If you receive &quot;shared library loader&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open your odbc.ini file.
 The odbc.ini file appears in the /bin sub-directory of most OpenLink client installations.</para><para>2.
 Locate your DSN.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[OpenLink]
Driver = /home/openlink/32bit/v40/lib/oplodbc.sl.1
Description = Sample OpenLink DSN
Host = nkhatam
ServerType = SQLServer 7
FetchBufferSize = 99
UserName = sa
Password =
Database = Northwind
ServerOptions =
ConnectOptions =
Options =
ReadOnly = no
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Find the <computeroutput>Driver= parameter</computeroutput>.
 Insure that your <computeroutput>Driver=</computeroutput> passes the correct path to the OpenLink client driver.
 This driver exists in the ~/openlink/lib sub-directory.
 Depending upon your operating system and driver version, the client driver will appear as some variant of oplodbc.so or oplodbc.la.
 If you see references to libiodbc.so or .la, remove them from the Driver parameter.
 The libiodbc files are Driver Manager files.</para><para>4.
 Save any changes and exit odbc.ini.</para><para>5.
 Insure that your OpenLink user has execute permissions on the client driver.</para><para>6.
 Insure that your ODBCINI environment variable points to your ~/openlink/bin/odbc.ini file.
 To set this variable, cd to the root directory of your client&#39;s OpenLink installation.
 Then, run one of the following commands: .</para><programlisting>./openlink.sh //* Korn, Bourne, or Bash shells
source openlink.csh //* C shells
</programlisting><para> 7.
 Test.</para><para>Finally, if you are working in a non-shared environment, contact OpenLink Product Support.
 The iODBC Driver Manager may only load shared libraries.
 You will need to implement UDBC instead.
 UDBC is Driver Manager independent.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>odbc.ini File Output of set</para></section></docbook>