<docbook><section><title>TheServerOrTheSystemHasNoMoreResources</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: &quot;The server or the system has no more resources. Try a larger -n.&quot; or &quot;The server or the system has no more resources. Please contact Progress Technical Support. (748)&quot; </title> Error Message: &quot;<computeroutput>The server or the system has no more resources. Try a larger -n.</computeroutput>&quot; or &quot;<computeroutput>The server or the system has no more resources. Please contact Progress Technical Support. (748)</computeroutput>&quot; 
<para>These Progress/OpenEdge-specific errors usually indicate that you have exceeded the maximum number of connections allocated for the database instance.</para><para>Sometimes the number of connections has been intentionally limited (typically because of a licensing or a design constraint).</para><para>Often, however, it is simply a misconfiguration of connection parameters, particularly including the <computeroutput>-n</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-Ma</computeroutput>, and <computeroutput>-Mn</computeroutput> server startup parameters.
 Specific advice for these values differs with the version of your DBMS engine, your environment, etc.
 Please refer to your Progress documentation.</para><para>If the Progress/OpenEdge instance is running on a Unix-like OS (e.g., AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris), it is possible that you have exceeded a kernel limit such as number of semaphores or swap space.
 These are often configurable (or &quot;tunable&quot;), with different specifics depending on your particular OS.
 Again, please refer to your Progress and/or OS documentation.</para></section></docbook>