<docbook><section><title>ThisEvaluationCopyHasExpired</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (T)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">This evaluation copy has expired</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;This evaluation copy has expired&quot; errors will occur, if you do not obtain a license for your OpenLink Single-Tier drivers.
 OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier drivers must be licensed after the sixty-day evaluation period has expired.</para><para>If you have obtained a Single-Tier license -- and you continue to experience registration errors -- you may have received an inappropriate license key.
 Please forward a copy of your license and your driver version to OpenLink Product Support.
 Be advised -- certain Progress Large Client drivers register with Progress Small Client keys.
 Ask Product Support for guidance.</para><para>If you are certain that you have obtained the correct license, you may have a corrupt registry.
 You will need to uninstall your OpenLink Single-Tier driver, remove references to the driver from your registry, and reinstall.
 Subsequent attempts to register the Single-Tier driver should succeed.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Single-Tier Version, Date, and File Information License File </para></section></docbook>