<docbook><section><title>TNSProtocolAdapterError</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">TNS: protocol adapter error (T)</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;TNS:protocol adapter&quot; errors are associated with environment and permissions problems.
 If your OpenLink server components are installed on Windows, restart your Broker using your local system account.
 If your OpenLink server components are installed on Unix, start your Broker under the root or Oracle uid.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ cd /usr/openlink/bin
$ ./oplshut
$ su
$ cd ..
$ . ./openlink.sh ## setting OpenLink environment variables
$ cd bin
$ ./oplrqb
</programlisting><para> If the problem persists, determine how many network cards are installed in the machine containing the OpenLink server installation.
 If you have multiple network cards, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file which exists in the /bin sub-directory of your server&#39;s OpenLink installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate [Protocol TCP].</para><para>3.
 Locate IPAddress.<para>4.
 Remove the semicolon (;).</para><para>5.
 Pass one of your machine&#39;s IP addresses to IPAddress.
 For example:<programlisting>IPAddress = 33.213.143.88
</programlisting><para> 6.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>7.
 Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</para><para>8.
 Test.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<para>Session Rules Book Request Broker Log </para></para></para></section></docbook>