<docbook><section><title>TokIsNotAParameter</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="ErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">-tok is not a database parameter and was ignored.
 (1402)</bridgehead>
<para>The &quot;-tok&quot; error is a Progress-specific database error.
 This error implies that you have passed the Progress Token parameter (<computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput>) in your Data Source connection attributes or your Tableview <computeroutput>.pf</computeroutput> file.
 Possibly, you may have passed <computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput> to an inappropriate parameter in a Multi-Tier Session Rulebook.
 To resolve the error, you must remove <computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput> from its current place in the Data Source, <computeroutput>.pf</computeroutput> file, or Rulebook.
 Moreover, if you remove <computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput> from a Rulebook, you must restart or reinitialize (<computeroutput>oplshut +reinit</computeroutput>) your Request Broker to register the change.</para><para>If necessary, you may set <computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput> in the Session Options field of Single-Tier Data Sources, or in the SessionOptions parameter of a Multi-Tier Session Rulebook.
 The following instructions will help you to configure a Rulebook: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open your the <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file, which you find in the <computeroutput>/bin/</computeroutput> sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[generic_proxxx]</computeroutput> section which is associated with your OpenLink database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[generic_pro82a]
Program = pro82a_sv.exe
Environment = PROGRESS82A
ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31
ReUse = never
UserID =
Password =
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Add the <computeroutput>-tok</computeroutput> setting to the <computeroutput>ServerOptions</computeroutput> parameter.
 For example: <programlisting>ServerOptions = -q -d mdy -TB 31 -TM 31 -tok 1600
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Data Source Attributes </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Log </listitem>
<listitem> Request Broker Session Rulebook </listitem>
<listitem> Tableview <computeroutput>.dat</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>.pf</computeroutput> Files </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>