<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAOpenlinkini</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">openlink.ini Files</bridgehead>
<para>The Single-Tier openlink.ini file associates database specific environment variables and port settings with Single-Tier domain aliases.
 For example:</para><programlisting>
[Server Types]
Oracle 8.1.x	=

[Environment Oracle 8.1.x]
ORACLE_HOME		  = /dbs5/oracle9i/64bit/v9.2.0.1.0
ORACLE_SID		  = ora92
;ORACLE_SERVER	          = T
;TWO_TASK		  = P:
;ODBC_CATALOGS		  = Y	  
;MULTIPLEX_LDA	          = 5	  
;OPL_USR_TBLS_FIRST	  = Y	  
SHOW_REMARKS		  = N  
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY        = LOW		  
;OCI_PREFETCH_ROWS	  = 100	;
;OCI_PREFETCH_MEMORY	  = 65535 ;
;NLS_LANG		  = AMERICAN_AMERICA.UTF8 

</programlisting><para> Use the following guidelines to interpret openlink.ini files:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Ascertain which server type (a.k.a.
 &quot;domain alias&quot;) is passed in the Single-Tier Data Source.
</listitem>
<listitem> Open the openlink.ini file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Insure that the server type appears in the [Server Type] list.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the [Environment] section that is associated with the server type.
</listitem>
<listitem> Insure that the appropriate environment variables are set.
</listitem>
<listitem> Compare the variable settings with the database user .profile to insure accuracy.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use relevant database utilities or configuration files to verify any TCP port settings.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>