<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAAgentStrings</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Database Agent Version Strings</bridgehead>
<para>Database Agent Version Strings produce the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Agent Name</emphasis> - Is the named agent compatible with the DBMS? </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Version Information</emphasis> - Is the agent current? Is the agent version associated with specific limitations, formal bugzillas, or other known problems? </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Compilation Platform</emphasis> - Compare the compilation platform information with the output of <computeroutput>uname -a</computeroutput> on the affected server.
 Is the agent compatible with that operating system?</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Finally, version string errors provide useful, diagnostic information.
 Failure to produce version strings often stems from one of three problems:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The agent does not exist on the system.
</listitem>
<listitem> Permissions prohibit the execution of the agent.
</listitem>
<listitem> The agent has library issues.
 Typically, the agent requires the addition of the database lib sub-directory to <computeroutput>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>LIBPATH</computeroutput> (AIX), or <computeroutput>SHLIB_PATH</computeroutput> (HP/UX).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Note: Database Agent Version Strings should be compared to Request Broker Version Strings and Client Version Strings to insure compatibility.
 Compatibility and stability problems arise, when Multi-Tier component versions differ.
</para></section></docbook>