<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAInstallationScripts</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Installation Shell Scripts</bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Insure that you have ftp&#39;d your installation shell scripts in ASCII mode and your installers in binary mode.
 If you ftp&#39;d your installation shell scripts in binary, you may get M^ errors during the install process.
 This can easily be rectified through repeat ftp in the correct mode.
</listitem>
<listitem> Obtain copies of your installation shell script and installation files.
</listitem>
<listitem> Obtain the output of <emphasis>uname -a</emphasis> on the problem machine.
</listitem>
<listitem> Forward the files to OpenLink Product Support.
</listitem>
<listitem> Provide the full text of any error that you have encountered.
</listitem>
<listitem> OpenLink will attempt to run the installation procedure on a similarly spec&#39;d machine.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>OpenLink Product Support will raise a bug, if the installation procedure fails on a similarly spec&#39;d machine, and the components are suited for that machine.
 Support will provide suitable components, if the ones that you provide are inappropriate for your operating system.
 Support will provide guidance, if you have the correct components, they install inhouse, but they fail in your environment.
 This is indicative of a configuration or resources problem that can be resolved.
  </para></section></docbook>