<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDABrokerTraces</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Request Broker Traces</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink Request Broker traces are similar to Request Broker Log files.
 However, there are appreciable differences: </para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> You append +loglevel 7 +logfile oplrqb.log after oplrqb to generate logs.
 You append +debug to the oplrqb command to generate traces.
 You may append either option on the command line or hard code it in the Rules Book.
</listitem>
<listitem>  Traces displays the Request Broker version string and detailed license information.
 Logs do not.
</listitem>
<listitem> Traces mark each line of input with DEBUG, INFO, and other  labels that demarcate the importance of the output.
 Messages prefixed with EMERG, ALERT, and CRIT denote serious conditions.
 ERROR denotes common error messages.
 WARNING, NOTICE, INFO, and DEBUG accompany informational messages that may or may not be symptomatic of problems.
 Logs do not contain these prefixes.
</listitem>
<listitem> Traces provide parenthetical references to actual lines of executing code that is associated with the error message.
 For example:</listitem>
</orderedlist><programlisting>16:23:29 DEBUG (mapscode.c:442): got it!
</programlisting><para> Here, mapscode.c:442 is a reference to code.
 Logs do not provide such references.</para><para>Note: Traces are timestamped and are a better starting point for diagnosing performance and other problems where time of occurrence is crucial.
</para></section></docbook>