<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAJDBCUrls</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">JDBC Connect Strings</bridgehead>
<para><emphasis>Single-Tier JDBC Connection URLs</emphasis> </para><para>OpenLink&#39;s Single-Tier drivers support JDBC Type 1 connections.
 Therefore, you need to insure that the URL format follows the JDBC Type 1 URL specification.</para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://ODBC[/DSN][/UID][/PWD][/READONLY]
</programlisting><para> Next,  you must evaluate the specific parameters and values that are passed.
 All Single-Tier URLs should begin like this:</para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://ODBC
</programlisting><para> Then,  they should pass DSN<computeroutput>=</computeroutput><emphasis>functional, local ODBC DSN</emphasis> followed by /UID<computeroutput>=</computeroutput><emphasis>database username</emphasis>, /PWD<computeroutput>=</computeroutput><emphasis>database password</emphasis> and /READONLY<computeroutput>=</computeroutput><emphasis>yes or no</emphasis> as needed or desired.</para><para><emphasis>Multi-Tier JDBC Connection URLs</emphasis></para><para>OpenLink&#39;s Multi-Tier drivers support JDBC Type 1 and JDBC Type 3 connections.
 Therefore, you need to insure that the URL format follows the JDBC Type 1 or JDBC Type 3 URL specification.</para><para><emphasis>Type 1</emphasis> </para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://ODBC[/DSN][/UID][/PWD][/READONLY] 
</programlisting><para> <emphasis>Type 3</emphasis> </para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://&lt;Hostname&gt;:[portnumber] [/UID] [/PWD] [/READONLY] [/SVT]
		[/APPLICATION] [/FBS|FETCHBUFFERSIZE] [/ENCRYPTED] [/CHARSET] [/UNICODE]
		[/DLF] [/DATABASE] [/OPTIONS] [/DRIVER]
</programlisting><para> Next, you must evaluate the specific parameters and values that are passed.
 All Multi-Tier URLs should begin like this:</para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://&lt;Hostname&gt;:[portnumber]
</programlisting><para> Note: Here, hostname pertains to the hostname or IP address of the machine that hosts the OpenLink Request Broker.
 Portnumber refers to the TCP port on which the Broker listens.</para><para>Finally, the URL should pass the remaining URL parameters as needed or desired:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /UID - Database username.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /PWD - Database password.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /READONLY - Read-write or read-only session mode.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /SVT - A valid domain alias from the [Domain Aliases] section of the OpenLink server component&#39;s oplrqb.ini file.
 Default domain aliases represent the type of database agent to which the application intends to connect, e.g., DB2, Informix 2000, Oracle 8.1.x.
 Custom aliases may take any form.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /APPLICATION - The Application name.
 Enables connectivity when restrictive server side rules screen by application name.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /FBS - (also FETCHBUFFERSIZE) The Fetch Buffer Size.
 The Fetch Buffer Size is an integer that represents the number of rows to return during one fetch operation.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /ENCRYPTED - Sets the Encrypted flag for outgoing packets.
 /ENCRYPTED may pass &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /CHARSET - Specifies the charset of remote databases.
 The default value is read from System.getProperty(&quot;file.encoding&quot;).</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /UNICODE - Instantiates unicode.
 The unicode connection isn&#39;t used by default.
 The value may be &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, &#39;n&#39;(This feature is disabled by default.)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /DLF - Pushes large, binary objects to the end of the resultset.
 Smaller data types are retrieved first.
 This enhances performance.
 /DLF may be set to &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.)</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /DATABASE - Actual database name within a particular database environment.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /OPTIONS - Optional parameter that passes specialized database native client connection parameters.
 Used to connect to Progress databases in sockets mode.
 Also to connect in 3-Tier or application server architectures.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> /DRIVER - The Driver name contained in curly brackets ({}).
 Used for DSN-Less connections to remote ODBC Drivers.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Note: You cannot pass the full path to Progress databases to the JDBC Database</para><para> parameter.
 (Slashes in path names are not parsed correctly.) Paths must be hardcoded in the Agent configuration section of the Session Rules Book.</para><para> Note: Older Multi-Tier drivers supported URLs that took this form:</para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://&lt;Hostname&gt;:[portnumber][/DSN][/UID][/PWD][/READONLY] 
</programlisting><para> This URL format is deprecated.
 Check individual driver support for this format, as needed.
</para></section></docbook>