<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDADatabaseprofiles</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Database .profiles</bridgehead>
<para>Database <computeroutput>.profiles</computeroutput> are Unix files that contain variables that databases need to function.
 They appear in the root directory of most database installations.
 Furthermore, these environment variables facilitate ODBC, JDBC, and other data access mechanisms.</para><para>If you are using Multi-Tier drivers, you need to insure that the pertinent database <computeroutput>.profile</computeroutput> variables appear in the <computeroutput>[Environment]</computeroutput> section of your Session Rulebook.
 The Session Rulebook is the <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file that resides in the <computeroutput>/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory of the OpenLink server components installation.
 For example:</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Informix database .profile</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>INFORMIXDIR=/dbs/informix/32bit/IDS2000
INFORMIXSERVER=hp2server
ONCONFIG=onconfig
PATH=$PATH:$INFORMIXDIR/bin
SHLIB_PATH=$SHLIB_PATH:$INFORMIXDIR/lib
export INFORMIXDIR PATH SHLIB_PATH INFORMIXSERVER ONCONFIG
</programlisting><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Multi-Tier Session Rules Book</bridgehead>
<para> </para><programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX2000]
INFORMIXSERVER	  = hp2server
INFORMIXDIR		  = /dbs/informix/32bit/IDS2000
DELIMIDENT			= Y  
OPL_INF_MULTISESS  = Y  
OPL_SPACEPADCHAR	= Y 
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW		  
;FET_BUF_SIZE			 = 65535			 
;FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE = 1				  
;LD_LIBRARY_PATH = /dbs/informix2000/lib		  
;SHLIB_PATH		= /dbs/informix2000/lib		  
;LIBPATH			= /dbs/informix2000/lib		 
;CLIENT_LOCALE	= EN_US.UTF8
</programlisting><para> If you are using Lite Edition drivers, you need to insure that the same variables appear in the <computeroutput>[Environment]</computeroutput> section of your <computeroutput>openlink.ini</computeroutput> file.
 The <computeroutput>openlink.ini</computeroutput> file appears in the <computeroutput>/bin</computeroutput> sub-directory of the Lite Edition client installation.
 Its <computeroutput>[Environment]</computeroutput> sections are similar to the <computeroutput>[Environment]</computeroutput> sections in the Multi-Tier <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file.</para><para>Finally, suspect environment variable problems when server handle errors, permissions errors, or blatant environment variable errors occur.
</para></section></docbook>