<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDARelinkScripts</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Relink Scripts</bridgehead>
<para>OpenLink&#39;s relink scripts are associated with missing library errors and missing symbol errors.
 Use the following guidelines to troubleshoot these problems:</para><para><emphasis>Missing Libraries</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Search the machine for the missing library.</para><para>2.
 Insure that no file or directory permissions prohibit access to found libraries.</para><para>3.
 Insure that LD_ LIBRARY_PATH, LIBPATH, or SHLIB_PATH pass the location of found libraries.</para><para>4.
 Pass the full path to found libraries within the relink script itself.
 In most cases, pass the library on the cc -s -o line.
 However, pass the library on the make -f line in Oracle scripts.
 Pass the library under $PRO_EXTRA in Progress mkdlc scripts.</para><para><emphasis>Missing Symbols</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Login to the machine.</para><para>2.
 cd into the database&#39;s /lib sub-directory.</para><para>3.
 Run the following commands:</para><para>nm -A *.so | grep <emphasis>symbol</emphasis> - works for most Unix/Linux Operating Systems nm -A *.sl | grep <emphasis>symbol</emphasis> - variant specific to HP/UX</para><para>For example:</para><programlisting>nm -A *.so | grep xsendto       
nm -A *.sl  | grep xsendto       
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Record the names of files, which contain the symbols.
 The filename will be the first name in the nm output.</para><para>5.
 cd to the /lib sub-directory of the OpenLink installation.</para><para>6.
 vi the script that produced the error.</para><para>7.
 Pass the full path to found libraries within the relink script itself.
 In most cases, pass the library on the cc -s -o line.
 However, pass the library on the make -f line in Oracle scripts.
 Pass the library under $PRO_EXTRA in Progress mkdlc scripts.</para><para>Note: Relink script failures are serious problems.
 OpenLink Product Support should create bugzillas when libraries or symbols cannot be found.
 In fact, OpenLink Product Support may request .tars of your database native /lib files where possible to assist Support and Development in the recreation of the problem.
</para></section></docbook>