<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDAHostFiles</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Hosts File</bridgehead>
<para>The /etc/hosts file is seldom associated with problems.
 If you suspect Multi-Tier connection problems stem from /etc/hosts, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Open the server&#39;s /etc/hosts file.</para><para>2.
 Locate the IP address which is associated with the server.
 For example:</para><programlisting>83.211.142.99 openlinux
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Exit /etc/hosts.</para><para>4.
 Obtain the output of ping on the server&#39;s hostname.
 For example:</para><programlisting>$ ping openlinux
64 bytes from 83.211.142.99: icmp_seq=1. time=0. ms
64 bytes from 83.211.142.99: icmp_seq=2. time=0. ms
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Compare the IP address in /etc/hosts to the IP address returned by ping.
 If the addresses do not match, check the networking.
 If the addresses do match, take the following action:</para><para>	a) Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file, which appears in the /bin sub-directory of the OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>	b) Locate the [Protocol TCP] section.</para><para>	c) Pass the IP address to the IPAddress parameter.
 Remove the semicolon (;).
 For example:</para><programlisting>IPAddress		= 83.211.142.99
</programlisting><para> 	d) Save the changes and exit the file.</para><para>	e) Restart or reinitialize the Request Broker.</para><para>	f) Test.
</para></section></docbook>