<docbook><section><title>TroubleshootingUDABrokerVersions</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Request Broker Version Strings</bridgehead>
<para>Request Broker Version Strings produce the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Version Information</emphasis> - Is the Broker current? Is the Broker version associated with specific limitations, formal bugzillas, or other known problems?</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Platform of Compilation</emphasis> - Compare the platform of compilation information with the output of uname -a on the affected server.
 Is the Broker compatible with that operating system?</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Finally, version string errors provide useful, diagnostic information.
 Failure to produce version strings often stems from one of three problems:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Broker does not exist on the system.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Permissions prohibit the execution of the Broker version string.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> The Broker has file dependency issues.
 You may need to adjust PATH or other environment variables to pick up needed libraries.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Note: Request Broker Version Strings should be compared to Database Agent Version Strings and Client Version Strings to insure compatibility.
 Compatibility and stability problems arise, when Multi-Tier component versions differ.
</para></section></docbook>