<docbook><section><title>UDABasicSystemRequirements</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">System Requirements</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Prerequisites and System Requirements</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Single-Tier &quot;Express&quot; Edition</bridgehead>
<para>Current versions of OpenLink&#39;s &quot;Express&quot; Edition drivers are <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com">available</ulink> for Mac OS X and Windows.</para><para>Express Edition drivers are not available for Linux or other UNIX-like platforms (Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, etc.).</para><para>A functional and recent Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is also required for use of &quot;Express&quot; Edition drivers.
 OpenLink generally recommends using the latest JVM available through Software Update on Mac OS X, and from <ulink url="http://java.com/">http://java.com/</ulink> for Windows.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition</bridgehead>
<para>Current versions of OpenLink&#39;s &quot;Lite&quot; Edition components (ODBC drivers, JDBC drivers, OLE DB providers, ADO.NET providers) are <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com">available</ulink> for Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, Solaris, AIX, and HP-UX.
 Other ports may be available as custom builds or upon request.</para><para>Drivers for DB2, Informix, Ingres, Oracle, and Progress require a functional copy of the respective database&#39;s native client (i.e., DB2 Connect, Informix Client SDK, Ingres Net, Oracle Instant Client or OCI Client, Progress Client Networking or SQL-92 Client Access).</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition</bridgehead>
<para>Current versions of OpenLink&#39;s &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition client components (ODBC drivers, JDBC drivers, ADO.NET providers) are <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com">available</ulink> for Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, Solaris, AIX, and HP-UX; server components are <ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com">available</ulink> for all of these except Mac OS X.
 Other ports may be available as custom builds or upon request.</para><para>Multi-Tier OpenLink server components (Request Broker and Database-specific Agents) for DB2, Informix, Ingres, Oracle, and Progress require a functional copy of the respective database&#39;s native client (i.e., DB2 Connect, Informix Client SDK, Ingres Net, Oracle Instant Client or OCI Client, Progress Client Networking or SQL-92 Client Access), or similar libraries typically included with the full database installation.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Other</bridgehead>
<para>You may require a compiler and library linker, if you intend to develop ODBC compliant applications or to relink OpenLink&#39;s Database-specific Agents or the iODBC Driver Manager.</para><para>You can use the <computeroutput>find</computeroutput> command to search for compilers and library linkers on UNIX-like systems.
 <computeroutput>cc</computeroutput> is a C compiler, and <computeroutput>CC</computeroutput> is a C++ compiler.
 Other compilers generally include <computeroutput>cc</computeroutput> or <computeroutput>CC</computeroutput> in their names.
 <computeroutput>ld</computeroutput> is a library linker.</para></section></docbook>