<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowDoYourDriversWork</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowDoYourDriversWork</title> doc.FAQ.HowDoYourDriversWork
<para>  <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Single-Tier drivers are client-side drivers.
 Users install most Single-Tier drivers on a machine, which contains the database native client.
 The drivers connect to this native client and send queries-through the client--to the database.
 In essence, the database native client speaks a proprietary network protocol that bridges the gap between a local driver and a remote database.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s MS SQLServer, <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  , and Sybase drivers are &quot;wire protocol&quot; drivers.
 These drivers contain libraries, which allow them to speak their database&#39;s native network protocol.
 Hence, users may install these drivers on any supported operating system.
 These drivers do not need the database native client to connect.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Multi-Tier drivers are client/server drivers.
 All users install the client on the machine, which contains their client application.
 Most users install <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Multi-Tier server components on a machine that contains the database or the database native client.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Multi-Tier server components consist of a Broker and a database-specific agent.
 The Broker responds to client requests and spawns the database agent that is designed to speak to the intended database.
 This agent is written in the database CLI and may speak directly to the database or proxy queries through the database native client.
 Moreover, the database agent is responsible for the return of data to the calling application.</para><para>Finally, persons with MS SQLServer, <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  , and/or Sybase databases may install their Multi-Tier server components on any supported operating system.
 These agents speak the database native communications protocol.
 Consequently, they can establish connections to remote databases without the aid of the database native client.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>