<docbook><section><title>Udadocvirtuosodata_management_integration</title><title> doc.virtuoso.data_management_integration</title> doc.virtuoso.data_management_integration
<para>Envision a Unified Data Model with The Ideal Data Junction Box — Virtuoso Universal Server</para><para>Virtuoso is <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>&#39;s Premier Server Product, the result of years of leading the ODBC data access technology sector.</para><para>Virtuoso is a data access middleware server with more - the power of an enterprise-class Database and Application Server.
 Virtuoso&#39;s Virtual Database unifies access to SQL, XML, and Text data sources.</para><para>Too many DBMS vendors in your mix? Need to connect to partner data sources? Let Virtuoso Unify data from any number of ODBC- or JDBC-accessible databases.
 Pull together your systems, gaining the efficiency of a single data model, without breaking any ongoing operations or deployed applications.
 Virtuoso connects to the industry&#39;s most complete roster of DBMS systems.
 After all, you are working with <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink Software</ulink>, the leader in UDA ODBC technology with a 12-year lineage.</para><para>Unified data not enough? Create entirely new web based applications with minimal effort.</para><para>XML and Web Services are the established methods for creating new applications and web-based partnerships.
 So don&#39;t forget the XML!</para><para>What&#39;s that you say? You don&#39;t have any XML? All your data is trapped in your RDBMS? No Problem!</para><para>Virtuoso creates XML documents on the fly from relational data, and supports XSLT, XQuery, full Text indexing of XML, XML Schema, XQuery, and Mapping schemas between relational data and XML.
 Virtuoso&#39;s Native XML and Full Text Database provides storage and data access to XML data ranging from highly-structured to free-form un-structured documents.</para><para>Virtuoso includes an <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/vdbms/ordbms/index.htm">Object-Relational Database</ulink>, with a high performance SQL-92/SQL-99 compliant engine which includes support for SQL 200n style objects as standalone data in procedures and as column data types.
 The Virtuoso Object System supports single inheritance, late binding, polymorphism, and persistence of objects as column values in SQL tables.
 The Virtuoso relational database also includes support for Row Level Security, Regular Expressions, and 64-bit file sizes.</para><para>Virtuoso Database Joins, Replicates, and Empowers Heterogeneous SQL and XML Data.
 Provides transparent XML, XMLA, ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE-DB access to relational data residing on any ODBC- or JDBC-accessible DBMS.
 Any number of relational tables from any database source may be linked into a single Virtuoso schema, making them indistinguishable from tables stored in the Virtuoso engine itself!</para><para>Read More about Virtuoso Universal Technology</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/vdbms/index.htm">Virtual Database</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/vdbms/ordbms/xmldb/index.htm">Native XML and Full Text Database</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/vdbms/ordbms/index.htm">SQL-200N compliant Object-Relational Database</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/rdf/index.htm">RDF Triple Store</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/repl/index.htm">Data Replication</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/overview/screencast/index.htm|Demonstrations">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/overview/screencast/index.htm|Demonstrations</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/index.htm|Whitepapers">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/index.htm|Whitepapers</ulink> <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Virtuoso: SOA and the State of Data Integration </listitem>
<listitem> Data Integration, Mergers Whitepaper <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Data_Integration.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Data_Integration.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Data_Integration.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Data_Integration.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Virtual Database Whitepaper <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtual_Database.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtual_Database.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtual_Database.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtual_Database.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Introduction to XML and SQLX <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_SQLX.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_SQLX.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_SQLX.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_SQLX.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Introduction to XML and XQuery <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_XQuery.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_XQuery.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_XQuery.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_XQuery.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Replication Services <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Replication_Services.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Replication_Services.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Replication_Services.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Replication_Services.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> Row Level Security <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_RowLevel_Security.pdf|PDF">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/pdf/DMI_Virtuoso_RowLevel_Security.pdf|PDF</ulink> &amp; <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_RowLevel_Security.htm|HTML">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/Whitepapers/html/DMI_Virtuoso_RowLevel_Security.htm|HTML</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/">Virtuoso Technology Blog</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/tutorial/hosting/">Virtuoso Data Management and Integration Tutorials</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso">Virtuoso Documentation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/FAQ/index.htm">Data Management and Integration FAQ</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>