<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowCanIPreventStabilityProblems</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowCanIPreventStabilityProblems</title> doc.FAQ.HowCanIPreventStabilityProblems
<para> Use the following guidelines to prevent stability problems:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Patch databases and operating systems regularly.
</listitem>
<listitem>Contact database and o/s vendors to see if patches are associated with problems.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure Unix kernel tuning parameters match parameters specified by database and o/s documentation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure your machine has adequate memory and processor resources.
</listitem>
<listitem>Comparison test Multi-Tier drivers when Single-Tier drivers appear to expose limitations in a database native client.
</listitem>
<listitem>Re-link Multi-Tier database agents against databases, especially patched databases.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink>  is set in the [Protocol TCP] section of the Multi-Tier Session Rules Book.
 This is the oplrqb.ini file that resides in the /bin sub-directory of the server components installation.
Multi-Tier users perform the following test:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>login to the machine that contains the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run oplshut -s on the command-line.
</listitem>
<listitem>Compare the output to the Windows (Task Manager) or Unix (ps -ef.) </listitem>
<listitem>Upgrade server components if oplshut shows fewer processes when compared to the Task Manager or ps.
Multi-Tier users experiment with database agent reuse.
 Users should comparison test the following values:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>ifsame process, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame application, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame database, upto 5</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>