<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQIDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMySingle-TierDSNWhatDoIDo</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.IDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMySingle-TierDSNWhatDoIDo</title> doc.FAQ.IDoNotKnowTheCorrectValuesForMySingle-<ulink url="TierDSNWhatDoIDo">TierDSNWhatDoIDo</ulink>
<para>  <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Single-Tier drivers pass a name and a set of database-specific connection parameters.
 You may name your Data Source Name anything you want, so long as it observes length and special character considerations.
 However, you should consult your Database Administrator, if you need assistance with the database-specific connection parameters.</para><para>The database-specific parameters are parameters that the various database native clients use to connect to the database.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Product Support Staff is familiar with many database native clients.
 However, these products change frequently.
 Moreover, your Database Administrator and Database Vendor will have more intimate knowledge of these products as they instantiate in your environment.
 However, you may use the following instructions to identify these parameters:</para><para> <emphasis>Database </emphasis></para><para> <emphasis>Parameter </emphasis></para><para> <emphasis>Windows Location </emphasis></para><para> <emphasis>Unix Location </emphasis></para><para> |DB2|Node or Remote Database Alias</para><para>|Client Configuration Assistant</para><para>|~/sqllib/db2nodes.cfg</para><para> |Informix|Server Name</para><para>|Setnet32 Server Information Tab</para><para>|$INFORMIXDIR/.profile, $INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts</para><para> |Informix|Physical Server Name or IP Address</para><para>|Setnet32 Server Information Tab</para><para>|Run hostname on the server or vi /etc/hosts</para><para> |Informix|Database Name</para><para> |Informix|Server Protocol</para><para>|Setnet32 Server Information Tab</para><para>|$INFORMIXDIR/etc/sqlhosts</para><para> |Informix|Client Locale</para><para>|Setnet32 Environment Tab</para><para>|Ingres|vnode</para><para>|VDBA Utility</para><para>|Netutil</para><para> |Ingres|database</para><para>|VDBA Utility</para><para>|Netutil</para><para> |MS SQLServer| <ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink></para><para> |MS SQLServer|SQLServer Instance Name</para><para>|Service Manager</para><para>|NA</para><para> |MS SQLServer|SQLServer Listening Port</para><para>|SQLServer Network Utility</para><para>|NA</para><para> | <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  |Physical Server Name or IP Address</para><para> |Run hostname on the server or vi /etc/hosts</para><para> | <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  |Listening Port</para><para> |vi the mysql_config file that appears in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  installation.
 The default is 3306.</para><para> | <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  |Database</para><para> |Oracle|SQL*NET Alias, Net8/9/10 Alias</para><para>|Oracle Net Configuration Assistant</para><para>|$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/tnsnames.ora</para><para> | <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  |Physical Server Name or IP Address</para><para> |Run hostname on the server or vi /etc/hosts</para><para> | <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  |Listening Port</para><para> |vi the postgresql.conf file that appears in the /database sub-directory of the <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  installation.
 The default is 5432.</para><para> | <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  |Database</para><para> |Progress|Socket Service (-S)</para><para>|Open Procontrol.
 Highlight your database and click View.
 Look for -S in the Startup Parameters field.</para><para>|vi your Progress startup.pf file or /etc/services.</para><para> |Progress|Network Protocol (-N)</para><para>|Open Procontrol.
 Highlight your database and click View.
 Look for -N in the Startup Parameters field.</para><para>|vi your Progress startup.pf file.
 -N TCP is the default.</para><para> |Progress|Physical Server Name or IP Address (-H)</para><para>|Open Procontrol.
 Highlight your database and click View.
 Look for -H in the Startup Parameters field.</para><para>|vi your Progress startup.pf file or run hostname on the command-line.</para><para> |Progress|Database</para><para>|Open Procontrol.
 Highlight your database and click View.
 Look for the database in the Physical DB-Name field.</para><para>|Sybase| <ulink url="ServerType">ServerType</ulink></para><para> |Sybase|Sybase Instance Name</para><para>|Sybase <ulink url="OpenClient">OpenClient</ulink>/Open</para><para>|vi the $SYBASE/interfaces file.</para><para> |Sybase|Sybase Listening Port</para><para> |vi the $SYBASE/interfaces file.</para></section></docbook>