<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQWhatValuesDoMulti-TierUsersNeedToPassInTheirDataSources</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.WhatValuesDoMulti-TierUsersNeedToPassInTheirDataSources</title> doc.FAQ.WhatValuesDoMulti-<ulink url="TierUsersNeedToPassInTheirDataSources">TierUsersNeedToPassInTheirDataSources</ulink>
<para>|Name|A descriptive name that identifies the Data Source.</para><para> |Server|Passes the hostname or IP address of the server on which the Multi-Tier Request Broker listens.
 Also passes the TCP port on which the Broker listens.
 The format is host:port.</para><para> |Domain|This value corresponds to a Domain Alias that appears in the [Domain Aliases] section of the Session Rules Book.
 Default Domain Aliases are named after the databases to which the database agent connect.
 Custom Domain Aliases may take any form.</para><para> |Database|This is the name of the database or Oracle SID.</para><para> |Login ID|This is a valid database username.</para><para> |Password|This is a valid database password.</para><para> Are the Multi-Tier Request Broker and DBMS installed on separate machines? If so, users must add one of the following values to the DSN:</para><para>|DB2 Server/Adapter|Passes a remote DB2 database alias.</para><para> |Informix Server|Passes the name of the Informix server.</para><para> |Ingres Net (vnode)|Passes vnode::database name.</para><para> | <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  Connect Options|Passes -H host -P port -T.</para><para> |Oracle SQL*Net Alias|Passes an Oracle SQL*Net alias.</para><para> | <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  Connect Options|Passes -H host -P port -T.</para><para> |Progress Connect Options|Passes Progress -S socket -H host -N tcp parameters.</para><para> |SQLServer Connect Options|Passes -S followed by a SQLServer instance name.</para><para> |Sybase Connect Options|Passes the Sybase instance name.</para></section></docbook>