<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowDoIInterpretOutputOfSet</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowDoIInterpretOutputOfSet</title> doc.FAQ.HowDoIInterpretOutputOfSet
<para>|CLASSPATH|A JAVA client variable that passes the full path to an <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  JDBC .jar file.
 This variable should appear on all systems that contain <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  JDBC client components.</para><para> |LD <emphasis>LIBRARY_PATH|A generic library path variable that appends the full path to <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s lib sub-directory.
 This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.
 </emphasis></para><para> |LIBPATH|An AIX library path variable that appends the full path to <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s lib sub-directory.
 This variable should be set on any AIX machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.</para><para> |ODBCINI|Passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/odbc.ini.
 This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client components.</para><para> |ODBCINSTINI|Passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/odbcinst.ini.
 This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client components.</para><para> |OPENLINKINI|This Single-Tier variable passes the full path to ~/openlink/bin/openlink.ini.
 This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier client components.</para><para> |PATH|Appends the full path to <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s bin sub-directory.
 This variable should be set on any machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.</para><para> |SHLIB_PATH|An HP/UX library path variable that appends the full path to <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s lib sub-directory.
 This variable should be set on any HP/UX machine that contains Single-Tier or Multi-Tier client or server components.</para><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Which environment variables are set.
</listitem>
<listitem>Which environment variables are missing.
</listitem>
<listitem>Whether or not variable paths are correct.
</listitem>
<listitem>Whether or not permissions prevent access to files or directories.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>