<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexudajdbc</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.uda.jdbc</title> doc.Index.index.uda.jdbc
<para> JDBC is the industry-standard API for database-independent connectivity between the Java applications and Databases, using a SQL based interface.
 As with Java itself one of the main features of the JDBC API is its &quot;Write Once, Run Anywhere&quot; capability enabling applications to be move from one OS to another without the need for recompilation.
 JDBC consists of two key components:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>JDBC Driver Manager </emphasis> - application binds to this generic class which is then responsible for loading the requested JDBC Driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>JDBC Driver </emphasis> - dynamically loaded by the JDBC Driver manager for making connection to target Database.
JDBC Drivers are available in four different types ranging from Pure to Bridge construction:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Type 4 </emphasis> - Direct-to-Database Pure Java Driver using database network protocol for driver communication with database from Java </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Type 3 </emphasis> - Pure Java Driver for Database Middleware using a middleware vendor&#39;&#39;s protocol-layer for connectivity to the Database.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Type 2 </emphasis> - A native API partly Java technology-enabled driver converting JDBC calls into the Database vendor&#39;&#39;s CLI calls for communication with the database.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Type 1 </emphasis> - JDBC-ODBC Bridge using an existing ODBC Driver for connecting to remote databases.
JDBC enables maximum interoperability between the application and database as a single application can access any JDBC-enabled database by simply being configured to use its JDBC driver, and likewise a JDBC enabled application can access a given Database using its JDBC driver.
 JDBC also has the added advantage of being able to run cross platform with the need for recompilation, the so-called &quot;Write Once, Run Anywhere&quot; capability.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>