<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQWhatDoUsersNeedToDoToConfigureTheirMulti-TierDrivers</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoUsersNeedToDoToConfigureTheirMulti-TierDrivers</title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoUsersNeedToDoToConfigureTheirMulti-<ulink url="TierDrivers">TierDrivers</ulink>
<para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Unix users need to ensure that openlink.sh (Bourne/Bash) or openlink.csh (C) is executed in the appropriate shell.
 These shell scripts set environment variables that pertain to ODBC.
 They appear in both client and server components installations.
</listitem>
<listitem>Unix users need to run set or env to ensure that the environment variables (ODBCINI, ODBCINSTINI, etc.) are actually set.
</listitem>
<listitem>All users need to ensure that the appropriate [Environment] section of the ~/openlink/bin/oplrqb.ini file contains the correct environment variables.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment Informix 7.3] INFORMIXDIR = /dbs2/informix/online731 INFORMIXSERVER = openlinux DELIMIDENT = Y OPL_INF_MULTISESS = Y OPL_SPACEPADCHAR = Y CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW ;FORCE_DORMANT = 1 ;FET_BUF_SIZE= 65535 ;FORCE_ONLINE_DATABASE= 1 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>All users should uncomment and set the <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink>  parameter that appears in the [Protocol TCP] section of the ~/openlink/bin/oplrqb.ini file.
 <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink>  should equal <ulink url="PortLow">PortLow</ulink>  + the number of concurrent connections alloted by the license + a few extra ports.
 For example: <programlisting>[Protocol TCP] PingWatchdog = No PingInterval = 600 Listen = 5021 PortLow = 5000 PortHigh = 5075 ;IPAddress = 127.0.0.1 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>All users need to start the Request Broker.
 The Request Broker is the oplrqb executable that appears in the /bin sub-directory of Multi-Tier server components installation.
 It may be started with one of the following commands: <programlisting>oplrqb # Starts process with no logging oplrqb -dv # Write debug output to the terminal oplrqb +loglevel 7 +logfile oplrqb.log # Writes debug output to a logfile 
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>