<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexmtbenefits</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.mtbenefits</title> doc.Index.index.mtbenefits
<para> High-Performance 32 Bit ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE-DB Drivers that provide transparent access to remote databases from any compliant application.
 These include Desktop Productivity Tools such as Spreadsheets, Word Processors, J2EE applications, Client &amp; Application Server Application Development Environments, Web based Database Publishing Tools and Computer Telephony Integration packages are just a few of the many products that can take advantage of our standards compliance.</para><para>The session rules book provides a policy based security scheme that is basically a logical data access firewall.
 It is described as such because it allows the system administrators to govern all the rules of engagement for <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC sessions and it does so across user accounts, client application, client operating systems, database names, machine aliases, a user defined rules domain, and any combination of these attributes.
 You can optionally encrypt all communication between the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Client and Server Components.</para><para>By implementing the Rendezvous service discovery protocol, as a result it is now possible to administer all of your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Data Access clients from one or more servers.
 The clients simply perform network lookups for the Rendezvous aware request brokers then bind/associate themselves with the servers, and all the client side connection parameter values are retrieved from the selected server prior to connection time.</para><para>HTML and HTTP based interface for configuring <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components.
 This implies that with an Internet connection, and the appropriate network access privileges, you can now administer your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components (which also means your clients as a result of <ulink url="ZeroConfig">ZeroConfig</ulink>  support).</para><para> </para></section></docbook>