<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQMyDriversProduceIntermittentCoreDumpsWhatDoIDo</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.MyDriversProduceIntermittentCoreDumpsWhatDoIDo</title> doc.FAQ.MyDriversProduceIntermittentCoreDumpsWhatDoIDo
<para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Does the database and operating system contain all current patches? </listitem>
<listitem>Are the patches associated with stability problems? </listitem>
<listitem>Do Unix kernel tuning parameters match parameters specified by database and o/s documentation? </listitem>
<listitem>Does the machine have adequate memory and processor resources? </listitem>
<listitem>Was the database agent re-linked against the database? </listitem>
<listitem>Is <ulink url="PortHigh">PortHigh</ulink>  set in the [Protocol TCP] section of the Multi-Tier Session Rules Book? This is the oplrqb.ini file that resides in the /bin sub-directory of the server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>What happens when users comparison test the following <ulink url="ReUse">ReUse</ulink>  values: </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame process, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame application, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>ifsame database, upto 5 </listitem>
<listitem>login to the machine that contains the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run oplshut -s on the command-line.
</listitem>
<listitem>Compare the output to the Windows Task Manager or Unix ps -ef.
</listitem>
<listitem>Upgrade server components if oplshut shows fewer processes when compared to the Task Manager or ps.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>