<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQOpenLinkVersusiODBC</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.OpenLinkVersusiODBC</title> doc.FAQ.OpenLinkVersusiODBC
<para> iODBC.org offers free installers and instructions for the open-source iODBC Driver Manager and iODBC SDK.
 The installers are packaged with source code, header files, make files, and other resources of interest to the development community.
 These products match <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software&#39;s quality and reliability; however, they, and the iODBC.org web site, cater to highly technical individuals who know how to build the iODBC Driver Manager into their own custom solutions.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software provides commercial quality Data Access Drivers, the Virtuoso Universal Server, diagnostic utilities, and related SDKs.
 In addition, the iODBC Driver Manager is bundled into the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  SDKs and installers for Data Access Drivers and Virtuoso.
 This software is intended to service businesses and other entities which need a complete, reliable, out-of-the-box solution.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  provides value added components in the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  iODBC variant of the iODBC SDK.
 This value takes the form of ready-to-run iODBC ports for all supported platforms, and in the case of Mac OS X this currently includes an AQUA and Frameworks based ODBC Administrator.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>