<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexuimwebappsrv</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.uim.webappsrv</title> doc.Index.index.uim.webappsrv
<para> URL&#39;s have become the default way of accessing documents and applications.
 Application servers and databases therefore need to make resources accessible in a URL namespace.
 Virtuoso offers a built-in Web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning . ( <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  ) repository capable of hosting static and many types of dynamic content.</para><para> <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  resources are controlled by a Unix-like security scheme where SQL accounts and roles are associated to resources and collections.
 The server-wide URL namespace can be mapped across multiple HTTP listeners, providing isolation and HTTPS access for selected points.
 These <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  resources are stored in a relational table, making it easy for applications to produce and alter <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  resources.</para><para>Besides documents, <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  can host dynamic content in ASP .Net, PHP 4, JSP, Virtuoso&#39;s native VSPX web page language and others.
 Also, XML reports generated from relational or XQuery queries may be directly published in DAV without any programming.
 Because DAV resources are in a database, these are covered by database backups and transaction logging and can be replicated using Virtuoso&#39;s replication capabilities.
 Additionally, text and XML resources get automatically indexed in the repository&#39;s full text index for fast retrieval.</para><para>Virtuoso <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  can be used as a file server for a number of web-authoring tools that support publishing and exporting of content to <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  ; as well as for operating systems that have a DAV file system driver.
 For example, Windows XP and Mac OSX applications and desktops can transparently manipulate data in Virtuoso DAV.</para><para>Visit our online Programming and <ulink url="WebDAV">WebDAV</ulink>  Tutorials</para><para>ietf.org - webdav-charter</para><para> </para></section></docbook>