<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQWhatDoIPassInAMulti-TierJDBCConnectionURL</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoIPassInAMulti-TierJDBCConnectionURL</title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoIPassInAMulti-<ulink url="TierJDBCConnectionURL">TierJDBCConnectionURL</ulink>
<para> </para><programlisting>jdbc:openlink://&lt;Hostname&gt;:[portnumber] [/UID] [/PWD] [/READONLY] [/SVT] [/APPLICATION] [/FBS|FETCHBUFFERSIZE] [/ENCRYPTED] [/CHARSET] [/UNICODE] [/DLF] [/DATABASE] [/OPTIONS] [/DRIVER] 
</programlisting><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Hostname - Network Alias or IP address of machine that runs an <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Request Broker instance.
</listitem>
<listitem>Port Number - TCP port on which the Request Broker listens.
</listitem>
<listitem>/UID - Database username.
</listitem>
<listitem>/PWD - Database password.
</listitem>
<listitem>/READONLY - Read-write or read-only session mode.
</listitem>
<listitem>/SVT - A valid domain alias from the [Domain Aliases] section of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server component&#39;s oplrqb.ini file.
 Default domain aliases represent the type of database agent to which the application intends to connect, e.g., DB2, Informix 2000, Oracle 8.1.x.
 Custom aliases may take any form.
</listitem>
<listitem>/APPLICATION - The Application name.
 Enables connectivity when restrictive server side rules screen by application name.
</listitem>
<listitem>/FBS - (also FETCHBUFFERSIZE) The Fetch Buffer Size.
 The Fetch Buffer Size is an integer that represents the number of rows to return during one fetch operation..
</listitem>
<listitem>/ENCRYPTED - Sets the Encrypted flag for outgoing packets.
 /ENCRYPTED may pass &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.) </listitem>
<listitem>/CHARSET - Specifies the charset of remote databases.
 The default value is read from System.getProperty(&quot;file.encoding&quot;).
</listitem>
<listitem>/UNICODE - Instantiates unicode.
 The unicode connection isn&#39;t used by default.
 The value may be &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, &#39;n&#39;(This feature is disabled by default.) </listitem>
<listitem>/DLF - Pushes large, binary objects to the end of the result-set.
 Smaller data types are retrieved first.
 This enhances performance.
 /DLF may be set to &#39;1&#39;, &#39;0&#39;, &#39;Y&#39;, &#39;N&#39;, &#39;y&#39;, or &#39;n.&#39; (This feature is disabled by default.) </listitem>
<listitem>/DATABASE - Actual database name within a particular database environment.
</listitem>
<listitem>/OPTIONS - Optional parameter that passes specialized database native client connection parameters.
 Used by users who connect to Progress databases in sockets mode.
 Also used by users who have 3-Tier or application server architectures.
</listitem>
<listitem>/DRIVER - The Driver name contained in curly brackets ({}).
 Used for DSN-Less connections to remote ODBC Drivers.
<programlisting>jdbc:openlink://localhost:5000/SVT=Ingres II/DATABASE=iidbdb/UID=ingres/PWD=ingres jdbc:openlink://192.128.13.119:5000/SVT=Oracle 8.1.x/DATABASE=ORCL/UID=scott/PWD=tiger jdbc:openlink://saturn:5000/SVT=Progress 91D/DATABASE=isports/OPTIONS=-S isports -N tcp -H saturn jdbc:openlink://localhost:5000/SVT=SQLServer 2000/DATABASE=Northwind/UID=sa/OPTIONS= -S SATURN 
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>