<docbook><section><title>Udadocpsindexudatraining</title><para> </para><title> doc.ps.index.uda.training</title> doc.ps.index.uda.training
<para> With our in-house experience in the areas of Data Access, Middleware and Web &amp; XML Services, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software has a comprehensive suite of training courses that cover different areas of expertise.</para><para>The courses provided cater for all levels of management and staff.
 These range from Senior Executives who require a high-level understanding of the technology implemented within their organization through to IT Managers and developers looking to implement enterprise solutions within their organization.</para><para>Courses covered include both <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  product-specific and non- <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  product-specific courses.
 Some of these topics are as follows:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>ODBC </listitem>
<listitem>JDBC </listitem>
<listitem>Client/Server Access </listitem>
<listitem>Distributed <ulink url="ComputingTraining">ComputingTraining</ulink>  can be undertaken either on- or off-site.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software consultants prepare custom courses, tailored specifically to your requirements and then conduct the training at your site using your training facilities.
 Depending on your requirements, this is either a quick start day or multiple days.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>Or, your staff attend standard <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  courses (or in some cases custom courses) provided at our training facilities.
 These courses will be advertised online and via RSS feeds.
 Some courses will be scheduled on a demand basis.</para><para>Please check here for the latest discount offers on courses.
 This will be displayed here when available.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>