<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexpscustomersupport</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.ps.customer.support</title> doc.Index.index.ps.customer.support
<para> At <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software we recognize that not every organization is the same, which means your needs and requirements will differ depending on the critical success factors you employ within your organization.
 One possible area of importance are the customer support levels required.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software is committed to providing effective and reliable technical support through a range of traditional and online resources.
 We recognize organizations like having greater control in the way Customer Support levels are prioritized.
 Thus ultimately depends on the project, implementation needs, upgrade requirement at the time.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Customer Support provides different support structures aimed at providing a broad range of offerings to cover any planning, implementation, operations, future upgrades needs within your organization.
 By offering these levels of service, your organization can benefit from high support levels that match your requirements, which brings its own inherent benefit to your business.</para><para> <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Product Support supports the following products in the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Product Portfolio:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Virtuoso Universal Server </listitem>
<listitem>Universal Data Access Drivers </listitem>
<listitem>Data Access Utilities </listitem>
<listitem>ODBC Developer kits While <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Product Support will attempt to assist with all data access technology issues, our support and training commitments will focus on the products listed above.
 All Support Level Agreements are formally reviewed on an annual basis and any necessary changes will be made to ensure the customer receives the best service possible.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>The different Customer Support levels are as follows:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Platinum Level </listitem>
<listitem>Gold Level </listitem>
<listitem>Bronze Level</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>