<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQWhatDoesOCIPrefetchMemoryDo</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoesOCIPrefetchMemoryDo</title> doc.FAQ.WhatDoesOCIPrefetchMemoryDo
<para>  <ulink url="OCIPrefetchMemory">OCIPrefetchMemory</ulink>  and <ulink url="OCIPrefetchRows">OCIPrefetchRows</ulink>  control parameters relating to the Oracle OCI&#39;s prefetching facility.
 However, use of this facility has been disabled in the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  agent and Lite driver because of problems experienced with Oracle 8.x and indicator variables.</para><para>To minimize server round trips and maximize performance, the OCI can prefetch result set rows when executing a query.
 This prefetching operates independently of <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s prefetching facility.
 The OCI prefetching can be customized by setting two attributes, OCI <emphasis>ATTR_PREFETCH_ROWS and OCI_ATTR_PREFETCH_MEMORY.
 The <ulink url="OCIPrefetchMemory">OCIPrefetchMemory</ulink>  and <ulink url="OCIPrefetchRows">OCIPrefetchRows</ulink>  settings in the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  setup dialogs map directly to these OCI attributes.
 </emphasis></para><para> <ulink url="OCIPrefetchMemory">OCIPrefetchMemory</ulink>  sets the memory allocated for rows to be prefetched.
 The application then fetches as many rows as will fit into that much memory.</para><para> <ulink url="OCIPrefetchRows">OCIPrefetchRows</ulink>  sets the number of rows to be prefetched.</para><para>When both of these attributes are set, the OCI prefetches rows up to the <ulink url="OCIPrefetchRows">OCIPrefetchRows</ulink>  limit, or until the <ulink url="OCIPrefetchMemory">OCIPrefetchMemory</ulink>  limit is reached, if this is lower.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>