<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowDoIAssistUsersWhoCannotStartTheMulti-TierRequestBroker</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowDoIAssistUsersWhoCannotStartTheMulti-TierRequestBroker</title> doc.FAQ.HowDoIAssistUsersWhoCannotStartTheMulti-<ulink url="TierRequestBroker">TierRequestBroker</ulink>
<para> Take the following action:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Ensure that a valid license appears in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components installation.
 The broker will not start without a valid license.
</listitem>
<listitem>Check directory and file permissions.
</listitem>
<listitem>Compare the name of the Unix .taz files with the output of uname -a.
 Determine whether or not the component is compatible with the operating system.
</listitem>
<listitem>Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file.
 Locate the [Protocol TCP] Listen parameter, and take note of the port.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run netstat -a and open /etc/services or C:\WINNT\SYSTEM32\DRIVERS\ETC\services to determine if the Broker&#39;s Listen port is in use by another service.
 This is typical of Windows XP which uses port 5000 by default.
</listitem>
<listitem>Run netstat -a open /etc/services or C:\WINNT\SYSTEM32\DRIVERS\ETC\services to determine if UDP port #60001 is in use.
 This will affect 1.x and 3.x installations.
</listitem>
<listitem>Attempt to start Windows Brokers with the Services utility and the DOS command line.
</listitem>
<listitem>Determine what service packs, patches, or upgrades have been applied to the operating system.
 Some upgrades cause the Broker service to fail.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>