<docbook><section><title>UdadocWhitepaperindexodbcwp</title><para> </para><title> doc.Whitepaper.index.odbcwp</title> doc.Whitepaper.index.odbcwp
<para> High-Performance 32 Bit ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE-DB Drivers that provide transparent access to remote databases from any compliant application.
 These include Desktop Productivity Tools such as Spreadsheets, Word Processors, J2EE applications, Client &amp; Application Server Application Development Environments, Web based Database Publishing Tools and Computer Telephony Integration packages are just a few of the many products that can take advantage of our standards compliance.</para><para>For several years, a working party called the SQL-Access Group (SAG), consisting of interested hardware and software vendors , worked towards defining a common database access method to simplify Client-Server computing.
 Microsoft has taken a core set of SAG&#39;&#39;s output and developed a call-level interface called the Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) Application Programming Interface.</para><para>ODBC defines a low-level set of calls which allow client applications and servers applications to exchange instructions and share data without needing to know anything about each other.
 It applies to any Client-Server operation, whether or not the client and server applications are resident on the same machine, or on different PC&#39;&#39;s, or even if the server is on a remote machine running a different operating system.</para><para>The Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) interface allows applications to access data from database management systems (DBMS).</para><para>The interface permits maximum interoperability - a single application can access diverse back-end database management systems.
 An application developer can develop, compile, and ship an application without targeting a specific DBMS product.
 Users can then add modules called database drivers that link the application to their choice of database management systems.</para><para>The ODBC interface defines the following:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>A library of ODBC function calls that allow an application to connect to a DBMS, execute SQL statements, and retrieve results.
</listitem>
<listitem>A standard way to connect and log on to a DBMS.
</listitem>
<listitem>A standardized representation for data types.
The Interface is flexible enabling:</listitem>
</itemizedlist><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>An application to construct SQL statements at compile time or at run time </listitem>
<listitem>An application to use the same object code to access different DBMS products </listitem>
<listitem>An application to connect to multiple instances of DBMS products </listitem>
<listitem>An application to send and receive data in a format convenient to the application; the driver converts data values to the format of a specific DBMS product.</listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>