<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQHowDoITroubleshootAFailedODBC-JDBCBridgeConnection</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.HowDoITroubleshootAFailedODBC-JDBCBridgeConnection</title> doc.FAQ.HowDoITroubleshootAFailedODBC-<ulink url="JDBCBridgeConnection">JDBCBridgeConnection</ulink>
<para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Ensure that the JDBC connection URL connects to the target database.
</listitem>
<listitem>Ensure that <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  &#39;s Single-Tier client components or Multi-Tier server components are installed on the machine that contains the JDBC connection URL.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multi-Tier users ensure that oplrqb and a JDBC Bridge Agent (jdbc13_mv, jdbc14_mv, etc.) appear in the /bin sub-directory of the <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Multi-Tier users ensure that oplrqb and the JDBC Bridge Agent (jdbc13_mv, jdbc14_mv, etc.) return version and usage information.
 For example: <programlisting>&gt; jdbc14_mv -? JDBC Database Agent (JDK 1.4)(multi threaded) Version 1.2 as of Thu Sep 04 2003 (Release 5.1 cvsid 00068). Compiled for Linux 2.2.25 (i686-pc-linux-glibc2.1) Copyright (C) OpenLink Software 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>Ensure that you pass the exact JDBC driver name string and JDBC connection URL in your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Data Sources.
 You can test the driver name string with the java command.
 It should return version and release information.
 For example: <programlisting>&gt; java openlink.jdbc3.Driver OpenLink Generic Driver for JDBC(TM) 3.0 Version 04.19 (Release 5.1) 
</programlisting> </listitem>
<listitem>Multi-Tier users ensure that JDBC 1.1, JDBC 1.2, JDBC 1.3, or JDBC 1.4 appears in the Domain or Server Type field of the Multi-Tier Data Source Name.
 (Case and spacing matter!) </listitem>
<listitem>Unix Single-Tier users ensure that JDBC 1.1, JDBC 1.2, JDBC 1.3, or JDBC 1.4 appears in the Existing Environment field of the Single-Tier Data Source Name.
 (Case and spacing matter!)  <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/worksheets.vsp?ws=st_install">Single-Tier Installation or Connection Problem</ulink></listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/worksheets.vsp?ws=mt_install">Multi-Tier Installation or Connection Problem</ulink></para><para> </para></section></docbook>