<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexpsconsulting</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.ps.consulting</title> doc.Index.index.ps.consulting
<para> At <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software, we recognize that implementing technology within your organization can sometimes be a time-consuming process.
 Integrating solutions sometimes requires a special expertise that might not be available in-house and requires assistance in its initial stages.</para><para>By recognizing this fact, <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software provides different types of consultancy implementation to ensure whatever your requirements, all your needs are catered for.
 These are:</para><para>Strategic Consultancy:</para><para>This addresses Web-Services, XML, Data security, Application &amp; Mobile Solutions, Content management, ODBC, JDBC, Client/Application-Server, Distributed Computing, Internet/Intranet/Extranet related issues as a whole from an objective and strategic perspective.</para><para>Product-Specific Consultancy:</para><para>This form of Consultancy is subjective and product-specific in nature.
 It covers Implementation, Configuration and Tuning of the relevant <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  products that you have acquired.
 These include Virtuoso and our UDA (ST&amp;MT) suite.</para><para>For more information and to discuss your requirements and costs, click here.</para><para>Custom Development:</para><para>This form of Consultancy typically involves <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  consultants developing product prototypes using the latest technology trends Web-Services, XML, Blogging, Mobile solutions and ODBC/JDBC/iODBC based solutions on behalf of the client.
 This service is offered on a contract basis only.</para><para>Quick-Start Days:</para><para>For evaluators of any <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software product we offer a special day of Consultancy which will accelerate your understanding of the product(s) acquired, their relevance and potential utilization within your infrastructure.</para><para>For more information and to discuss your requirements and costs, click here.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>