<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexuimrepl</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.uim.repl</title> doc.Index.index.uim.repl
<para> Replication strikes a balance between presenting consistent data and not depending on a single centralized location for all IS needs.</para><para>Virtuoso offers a range of tools and technologies for replicating and synchronizing data between different servers.
 These technologies are suited for a wide variety of distributed IS needs, including:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Two-way replication of tables, involving a Virtuoso hub sharing data between a group of MS SQL Server, Oracle or DB2 databases.
 The Virtuoso will initiate data transfer and resolve possible update conflicts.
</listitem>
<listitem>Disseminating periodically changing data between heterogeneous relational databases.
 Almost any ODBC/JDBC accessible database can be a source or recipient of such data.
</listitem>
<listitem>Keeping Virtuoso DAV repositories in sync between Virtuoso installations.
</listitem>
<listitem>Keeping Virtuoso servers in real-time sync for load balancing or hot standby situations.
 This is based on real-time log shipping, thus will also work for intermittently connected systems.
</listitem>
<listitem>Sharing mobile data through <ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink>  . The Virtuoso <ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink>  server has pluggable logic for format conversions between common mobile formats such as Vcard and Vcalendar.
All these technologies function reliably in either a constantly or intermittently connected network.
 Nodes will bring themselves up-to-date automatically upon reconnect or recovery, requiring minimal administration.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>A web based interface or SQL statements are used for defining publications and subscriptions and synchronization intervals.</para><para> <ulink url="SyncML">SyncML</ulink>  1.0</para><para> </para></section></docbook>