<docbook><section><title>UdadocFAQCannotStopAA</title><para> </para><title> doc.FAQ.CannotStopAA</title> doc.FAQ.CannotStopAA
<para> The Multi-Tier Administrative Assistant is a service.
 It is powered by the www_sv agent that appears in the /bin/w3config sub-directory of Multi-Tier server components installations.
 Unlike the Request Broker, the Administrative Assistant does not require manual shutdown.
 Instead, the Request Broker kills the agent during its own shutdown routine.</para><para>Take the following action, if you cannot terminate your Admin Assistant:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Login to the machine that contains your Multi-Tier server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>Use ps -ef | grep oplrqb or the Windows service utility, to ensure the Broker is stopped.
</listitem>
<listitem>Use oplshut -fy or the Windows service utility to kill the Broker when appropriate.
</listitem>
<listitem>Use ps -ef | grep www <emphasis>sv or the Task Manager to see if www_sv persists.
 </emphasis> </listitem>
<listitem>Use kill -9 or the Task Manager to kill remaining www_sv processes.
The proceeding instructions should allow you to kill errant www_sv processes.
 In the future, run oplshut -fy -- from the command-line-- to force both the Broker and Admin Assistant to shutdown.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>If www_sv reappears, you may have an automated script that respawns the process at intervals.
 These scripts are proprietary scripts that are implemented by <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  partners or system administrators.
 Contact your <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  partner vendor or system administrator for assistance.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>