<docbook><section><title>UdadocIndexindexudaodbc</title><para> </para><title> doc.Index.index.uda.odbc</title> doc.Index.index.uda.odbc
<para> ODBC is the acronym for Open <ulink url="DataBase">DataBase</ulink>  Connectivity, a Microsoft Universal Data Access standard that started life as the Windows implementation of the X/Open SQL Call Level Interface specification.
 Since its inception in 1992 it has rapidly become the industry standard interface for developing database-independent applications.
 ODBC consists of two key components:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>ODBC Driver Manager </emphasis> - an application binds to this generic library which is responsible for loading the requested ODBC Driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>ODBC Driver </emphasis> - dynamically loaded by the ODBC Driver manager for making connection to target Database.
Although starting life as an exclusively Microsoft Windows Data Access API, as its popularity grew, application-authors and database-vendors alike longed for this Data Access standard to be available on other operating systems.
 This resulted in companies like <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  building their own ODBC Driver Managers and suite of ODBC Drivers for other operating systems - Linux, Unix, Mac OS, <ulink url="OpenVMS">OpenVMS</ulink>  and others.
 The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  -branded ODBC Driver Manager is called iODBC, being the acronym for Independent Open <ulink url="DataBase">DataBase</ulink>  Connectivity, an Open Source platform-independent implementation of both the ODBC and X/Open specifications.
 <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  also provides a suite of Universal Data Access ODBC Drivers for the most popular databases across multiple operating systems.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para></section></docbook>