<docbook><section><title>Udauda</title><para> </para><title> uda</title> uda
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h1">  <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE-DB</bridgehead>
<para>   <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE-DB In today&#39;s knowledge economy your ability to exploit data ultimately determines success.
 Thus, the technology that impacts your ability to store, access, and disseminate data across the enterprise is of ever-increasing value.</para><para>Knowledge is the basis of competitive advantage, but there is no knowledge without Information, and there is no Information without Data.
 Basically, there is no such thing as Information Technology (IT) without Data.</para><para>Universal Data Access (UDA) middleware defines a category of software that provides transparent access to data sources (such as databases) from Desktop Productivity Tools, Application Development Environments, and Web &amp; Internet Points of Presence.</para><para>UDA middleware ensures that your data assets remain yours to exploit in the manner that bests serves the needs of your organization.
 You are empowered by having the freedom to mix and match &quot;best of class&quot; IT infrastructure components without &quot;vendor lock-in&quot; at the operating system, programming language, application server, or database level.
 The cost of vendor lock-in at any of these levels ultimately impedes enterprise agility.</para><para>UDA middleware from <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Software describes a collection of industry standards-compliant Data Access Drivers that support the following:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Open Database Connectivity ( <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=ODBC|ODBC">http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=ODBC|ODBC</ulink> ) </listitem>
<listitem>Java Database Connectivity ( <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=JDBC|JDBC">http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=JDBC|JDBC</ulink> ) </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Object_linking_and_embedding">Object Linking &amp; Embedding</ulink> for Databases (OLE DB) </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=ADO">ActiveX Data Objects</ulink> for <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Microsoft_.NET|.NET">http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Microsoft_.NET|.NET</ulink> ( <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=ADO.NET|ADO.NET">http://www.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=ADO.NET|ADO.NET</ulink> - Microsoft or the Open Source <ulink url="http://www.go-mono.com/ado-net.html|Mono">http://www.go-mono.com/ado-net.html|Mono</ulink> flavor) You simply acquire and/or develop database independent solutions that are ODBC, JDBC, OLE DB, or ADO.NET compliant, and then install the appropriate UDA driver(s) for the database(s) to which you need access.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>UDA utilization can be as simple as connecting your Spreadsheet or Word Processor to your back-end database, without need of a single line of code or any exposure to the complexities of networking and low-level database interaction.
 It may be a little more involved if you are an applications or systems programmer.
 Irrespective of why you seek to exploit UDA based middleware, it will always ultimately provide better value to your enterprise than any proprietary (aka Native) alternative.</para><para>Oracle (7.x-9.x), Microsoft SQL Server (6-2000), DB2 (5.x-7.x), SYBASE ASE (10.x-12.x), Informix (5.x - 2000), PROGRESS (7.x-9.x), CA-Ingres (6.4-II editions), <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  , and others (via our ODBC and JDBC bridge technologies).</para><para>ODBC Drivers are available for Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, Mac OS 9, and all UNIX flavors.</para><para>JDBC Drivers are 100% pure and run on any platform hosting a Java Virtual Machine (runtime environment).</para><para>ADO.NET providers are available for use with Microsoft .NET (on Windows) or Mono (on Windows, Linux, Solaris, Mac OS X, and others).</para><para>OLE DB providers are available only for Microsoft Windows.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Platform Support </entry><entry>  Support for client, server, and application server operating systems  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  32- and 64-bit components |  Enables the development and utilization of 32- or 64-Bit DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Database Engine Support </entry><entry>  Backend database engine support  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Broad backend Database Support |  Enables DBMS independent application utilization and deployment across a vast array of industry leading DBMS engines that includes; Oracle (7.x - 10.x), SQL Server (6.x - 2005), DB2 (6.x - 8.x), Sybase (10.x - 12.x), Progress (7.x - 10.x), Ingres (6.4 - II family), Informix (5.x - 9.x &amp; IDS 2000), <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , and <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  .</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Blistering Performance </entry><entry>  Delivery of data access performance levels across ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE DB that don&#39;t compromise viability of DBMS independent application development and deployment.  </entry><entry>  Network Aware Record Retrieval </entry><entry>  Enabling the retrieval and insertion of multiple DBMS records in batches over the network with a minimal number of network hops.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  International character support |  Enables the development and deployment of international applications that are independent of underlying database engine.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Multithreaded |  Enables exploitation of scalability benefits arising from the use of multiple CPUs or Clusters while developing or using DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Supports Advanced Data Access API functionality |  Enables the development and utilization of DBMS application with DBMS independent granularity that extends to challenging areas such as scalar function calls, dates and timestamps manipulation, outer join handling, and SQL stored procedure invocation etc.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>