<docbook><section><title>Udaudaodbcexpressodbc-frbird-ee</title><para> </para><title> uda.odbc.express.odbc-frbird-ee</title> uda.odbc.express.odbc-frbird-ee
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h1">  ODBC Driver for Firebird</bridgehead>
<para>  ODBC Driver for Firebird The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC Driver for Firebird (Express Edition) is a single component installed on a data-consuming machine - depending on the architecture in which the driver is deployed, either a client such as a desktop, a workstation or an application-server machine.
 No further components need be installed on the deployment machine or database server.</para><para>The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC Driver for Firebird (Express Edition) is a Type-B class of driver enabling seamless connectivity to your database out-of-the-box, thus eliminating the need for the installation of any database-specific client networking software.
 This driver simplifies the configuration requirements at every attempt, maximizing your data-capability whilst minimising the need for knowledge of the database specifics.</para><para>The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  ODBC Driver for Firebird (Express Edition) has been specifically designed for Apple&#39;&#39;s Mac Universal platform and implements try-and-buy functionality, greatly simplifying evaluation and enabling a smooth upgrade to a full license, at a low entry-level price.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Platform Support </entry><entry>  Support for client, server, and application server operating systems  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  32- and 64-bit components </entry><entry>  Enables the development and utilization of 32- or 64-Bit DBMS independent applications.  </entry><entry>  Broad Operating System Support </entry><entry>  Enables the development of ODBC compliant applications and the utilization of ODBC Drivers on non Windows platforms such as; Linux (x86, PPC, Itanium, Opteron), Mac OS X, Mac OS Classic, <ulink url="FreeBSD">FreeBSD</ulink>  , Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, HP True64 UNIX, IRIX, Altix, SCO <ulink url="UnixWare">UnixWare</ulink>  , and others.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Database Engine Support </entry><entry>  Backend database engine support  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Broad backend Database Support |  Enables DBMS independent application utilization and deployment across a vast array of industry leading DBMS engines that includes; Oracle (7.x - 10.x), SQL Server (6.x - 2005), DB2 (6.x - 8.x), Sybase (10.x - 12.x), Progress (7.x - 10.x), Ingres (6.4 - II family), Informix (5.x - 9.x &amp; IDS 2000), <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , and <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  .</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Blistering Performance </entry><entry>  Delivery of data access performance levels across ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE DB that don&#39;t compromise viability of DBMS independent application development and deployment.  </entry><entry>  Network Aware Record Retrieval </entry><entry>  Enabling the retrieval and insertion of multiple DBMS records in batches over the network with a minimal number of network hops.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  International character support |  Enables the development and deployment of international applications that are independent of underlying database engine.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  ODBC 3.5 Compliance |  Enables broad compatibility between an extensive collection of older and newer ODBC Applications across an array of platforms.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Multithreaded |  Enables exploitation of scalability benefits arising from the use of multiple CPUs or Clusters while developing or using DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Supports Advanced Data Access API functionality </entry><entry>  Enables the development and utilization of DBMS application with DBMS independent granularity that extends to challenging areas such as scalar function calls, dates and timestamps manipulation, outer join handling, and SQL stored procedure invocation etc.  </entry><entry>  Complete ODBC Scrollable Cursor Model Support </entry><entry>  Provides ODBC compliant applications with a flexible model for handling sensitivity to data changes using the following scrollable cursor models: Forward-Only, Static, <ulink url="KeySet">KeySet</ulink>  , Dynamic, and Mixed.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</section></docbook>