<docbook><section><title>Udaudaodbcexpress</title><para> </para><title> uda.odbc.express</title> uda.odbc.express
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h1">  Single-Tier (Express Edition)</bridgehead>
<para>  Single-Tier (Express Edition)  <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Express Edition drivers enhance the common perception of an ODBC driver - a single component installed on the desktop or workstation machine only - by not requiring any further installation of database-specific networking on the client, or components on the database-server.
 Once installed, it provides seamless connectivity to the databases.</para><para>The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Express Edition drivers have been designed in harmony with Apple&#39;&#39;s Mac Universal Platform.
 Maximum capability, minimum effort.</para><para>The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink>  Express Edition driver is a client-only installation and goes some way to ensure the job for developers, administrators and end-users is simplified.
 Part of this process means installing the software in one location as opposed to numerous locations.
 By discarding the server-side setup, there is no server-side administration so the user has only a single entry-point for installation and administration.
 In the majority of cases, knowing the database by name is all that is required.</para><para>To the developer writing an application, there is no requirement to know on which server it resides: you can write your application for any environment, regardless of where it will end.
 There are also performance benefits gained by employing this single solution, which in some cases exceeds that provided by the database vendor drivers.
 Being able to integrate your solution simply into your organization with its plethora of internal and disparate systems means your ROI increases significantly.</para><para>These drivers are built by implementing the ODBC data-access interface specifications directly connecting to the database.
 There are no limiting factors as with traditional Single-Tier solutions.</para><para>The Express Edition drivers are Type-B - C-based remote procedure calls (RPC) interface to the wire-protocol of the underlying database.
 This is a client-only interface that communicates directly with the remote database server.
 These interfaces typically are unavailable to third-party developers.
 To date the Open Source projects such as <ulink url="FreeTDS">FreeTDS</ulink>  , <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  , and Interbase are the only publicly accessible and freely available versions of such interfaces.</para><para>The ODBC Express Edition drivers offer developers an opportunity to develop generic solutions across platforms without prior knowledge of the operating system hosting the Database server.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Platform Support </entry><entry>  Support for client, server, and application server operating systems  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  32- and 64-bit components </entry><entry>  Enables the development and utilization of 32- or 64-Bit DBMS independent applications.  </entry><entry>  Broad Operating System Support </entry><entry>  Enables the development of ODBC compliant applications and the utilization of ODBC Drivers on non Windows platforms such as; Linux (x86, PPC, Itanium, Opteron), Mac OS X, Mac OS Classic, <ulink url="FreeBSD">FreeBSD</ulink>  , Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, HP True64 UNIX, IRIX, Altix, SCO <ulink url="UnixWare">UnixWare</ulink>  , and others.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Database Engine Support </entry><entry>  Backend database engine support  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Broad backend Database Support |  Enables DBMS independent application utilization and deployment across a vast array of industry leading DBMS engines that includes; Oracle (7.x - 10.x), SQL Server (6.x - 2005), DB2 (6.x - 8.x), Sybase (10.x - 12.x), Progress (7.x - 10.x), Ingres (6.4 - II family), Informix (5.x - 9.x &amp; IDS 2000), <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , and <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  .</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Blistering Performance </entry><entry>  Delivery of data access performance levels across ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE DB that don&#39;t compromise viability of DBMS independent application development and deployment.  </entry><entry>  Network Aware Record Retrieval </entry><entry>  Enabling the retrieval and insertion of multiple DBMS records in batches over the network with a minimal number of network hops.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  International character support |  Enables the development and deployment of international applications that are independent of underlying database engine.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  ODBC 3.5 Compliance |  Enables broad compatibility between an extensive collection of older and newer ODBC Applications across an array of platforms.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Multithreaded |  Enables exploitation of scalability benefits arising from the use of multiple CPUs or Clusters while developing or using DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Supports Advanced Data Access API functionality </entry><entry>  Enables the development and utilization of DBMS application with DBMS independent granularity that extends to challenging areas such as scalar function calls, dates and timestamps manipulation, outer join handling, and SQL stored procedure invocation etc.  </entry><entry>  Complete ODBC Scrollable Cursor Model Support </entry><entry>  Provides ODBC compliant applications with a flexible model for handling sensitivity to data changes using the following scrollable cursor models: Forward-Only, Static, <ulink url="KeySet">KeySet</ulink>  , Dynamic, and Mixed.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</section></docbook>