<docbook><section><title>Udaudadotnet</title><para> </para><title> uda.dotnet</title> uda.dotnet
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h1">  ADO.NET Data Providers</bridgehead>
<para>  ADO.NET Data Providers ADO.NET is the latest data-access API from Microsoft.
 As its name suggests, it is an evolution of Active Data Objects (ADO), built as part of the Microsoft .NET Frameworks.
 ADO.NET presents a very different programming model from Microsoft&#39;&#39;s previous data-access APIs.
 The old connected model, in which a client program maintained a connection with the server for the duration of the application; the new paradigm underpinning ADO.NET is a disconnected model where clients only hold connects for the minimum time necessary.</para><para>The .NET runtime and frameworks are also available for non-Windows platforms as a result of the Mono open-source project from Novell, which is committed to providing a compatible environment for developing .NET applications for cross-platform use.</para><para>As an integral component of the .NET Frameworks, it is the standard Data-Access method for developing database centric (SQL or XML) Windows Forms applications, Web Services, and other data consuming .NET components.
 The Mono project also includes a full implementation of the ADO.NET Frameworks that extends the data access benefits of ADO.NET to platforms such as Linux, Mac OS X, Solaris, and HP-UX.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Platform Support </entry><entry>  Support for client, server, and application server operating systems  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  32- and 64-bit components |  Enables the development and utilization of 32- or 64-Bit DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Database Engine Support </entry><entry>  Backend database engine support  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Broad backend Database Support |  Enables DBMS independent application utilization and deployment across a vast array of industry leading DBMS engines that includes; Oracle (7.x - 10.x), SQL Server (6.x - 2005), DB2 (6.x - 8.x), Sybase (10.x - 12.x), Progress (7.x - 10.x), Ingres (6.4 - II family), Informix (5.x - 9.x &amp; IDS 2000), <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>  , and <ulink url="PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</ulink>  .</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry>  Blistering Performance </entry><entry>  Delivery of data access performance levels across ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET and OLE DB that don&#39;t compromise viability of DBMS independent application development and deployment.  </entry><entry>  Network Aware Record Retrieval </entry><entry>  Enabling the retrieval and insertion of multiple DBMS records in batches over the network with a minimal number of network hops.  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  International character support |  Enables the development and deployment of international applications that are independent of underlying database engine.</para><para> 
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Performance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Multithreaded |  Enables exploitation of scalability benefits arising from the use of multiple CPUs or Clusters while developing or using DBMS independent applications.
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody><entry>  Standards Compliance  </entry>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> |  Supports Advanced Data Access API functionality |  Enables the development and utilization of DBMS application with DBMS independent granularity that extends to challenging areas such as scalar function calls, dates and timestamps manipulation, outer join handling, and SQL stored procedure invocation etc.</para><para> </para></section></docbook>