<docbook><section><title>UnableToUseConfigurationFile</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (U)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Unable to use configuration file &lt;#####.ini&gt;</bridgehead>
<para>Are you using OpenLink&#39;s Release 3.0 Multi-Tier Drivers? Are you attempting to change licensing on a Windows server? If so, you may receive &quot;unable to use configuration file &lt;#####.ini&gt;&quot; error messages.  Customers typically use the register.exe binary to register their license files.
 Early versions of Release 3.0 contained a buggy version of the register.exe binary.
 It would allow customers to perform the initial registration.
 However, subsequent registration of license files would fail.
 To diagnose and resolve this problem, take the following action:  1.
 Open a DOS command prompt.
</para><para> 2.
 cd into the bin\ directory of your OpenLink server installation.
</para><para> 3.
 Enter the following command to determine the release and version of the register.exe binary:  </para><programlisting>
C:\Program Files\OpenLink\bin&gt;.\register -?
OpenLink Registration Program
Version 1.1A (Release 3.2) as of Tue Oct 05 1999 (cvsid 00050).
Compiled for Windows 95 and NT
Copyright (C) OpenLink Software.

</programlisting><para>Usage:   register [inifile]   If the date on your register.exe is earlier than the one listed above, you need to update it.
 However, OpenLink&#39;s release 3.x software is nolonger available via the typical download process.
 Instead, you may obtain the latest 3.x register.exe binary by clicking on this download link: <ulink url="register.exe">Download</ulink> </para></section></docbook>