<docbook><section><title>UnableToLoadLocaleCategories</title><title> Error Message: Unable to load locale categories </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to load locale categories</computeroutput> 
<para>Missing or incorrectly set Informix environment variables can lead to &quot;Unable to load locale categories&quot; errors.
 To remedy this problem, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the physical Informix database server as the Informix owner (typically userid <computeroutput>informix</computeroutput>).
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If your Informix host is Unix or Linux-based, review the Informix user&#39;s <computeroutput>.profile</computeroutput> or similar to see what variables are being set, and to what values.
</listitem>
<listitem> If your Informix host is Windows-based, run SetNet32.
 Then, click on the Environment tab of the SetNet32 dialog box.
 Determine the same information.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the active Rulebook (typically, <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> found alongside the <computeroutput>oplrqb</computeroutput> executable).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Environment INFORMIX*]</computeroutput> section which corresponds to your active database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment INFORMIX72]
INFORMIXSERVER = alpha
INFORMIXDIR = /dbs/informix72
DELIMIDENT = Y ; Allow quoted identifiers
OPL_INF_MULTISESS = Y ; Allow multiple sessions
OPL_SPACEPADCHAR = Y ; Pad CHAR fields with spaces
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY = LOW ; Set to HIGH after loading oplrvc.sql
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Set <computeroutput>INFORMIXDIR</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>INFORMIXSERVER</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>ONCONFIG</computeroutput>, and <computeroutput>TBCONFIG</computeroutput>, as appropriate.
 You may also need to add a parameter setting, such as <computeroutput>CLIENT_LOCALE = en_US.819</computeroutput>.
 Different versions of Informix databases recognize and require different combinations of variables.
</listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes, and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart or reinitialize your Request Broker.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>This should remedy the problem.
 If it does not, the active Informix Database Agent may not be fully compatible with your Informix database.
 <ulink url="http://support.openlinksw.com/support/online-support.vsp">Contact us</ulink> for more assistance.</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Evidence</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Database Agent Version String </listitem>
<listitem> DBMS Version </listitem>
<listitem> Session Rulebook </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>