<docbook><section><title>UnableToContactTheRequestBrokerOnLocalhost</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Error Messages (U)</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="UDAErrorMessages">A</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="ErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Unable to contact the request broker on localhost</bridgehead>
<para>The OpenLink oplshut utility returns &quot;Unable to contact&quot; errors, when it cannot locate the Request Broker.
 If you experience &quot;Unable to contact&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para> 1.
 Use a text editor to open your OpenLink Session Rules Book (oplrqb.ini).
 You will find the Rules Book in the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink server components installation.</para><para>2.
 Locate the [Security] section.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Security]
StartupBy = .*
ShutdownBy = .*
ShutdownFrom = localhost.*,127.0.0.1
ValidUidRange = 0, 50000
;TraceRulebook = debug.bk
;IncludeRulebook= samplesv.bk
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Set ShutdownFrom to .* . For example:</para><programlisting>ShutdownFrom = .*
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Save your changes and exit the file.</para><para>5.
 Test oplshut.</para><para> If the problem persists, take the following action:</para><para> 1.
 Use a text editor to open your Session Rules Book (oplrqb.ini).</para><para>2.
 Locate [Protocol TCP].
 For example:</para><programlisting>[Protocol TCP]
PingWatchdog = No
PingInterval = 600
;IPAddress = 127.0.0.1
PortLow = 5000
;PortHigh = 60000
Listen = 5000
</programlisting><para> 3.
 Record the value passed to Listen.
 For example:</para><programlisting>Listen = 5000
</programlisting><para> 4.
 Close your Rules Book.</para><para>5.
 Open an MS-DOS command prompt.</para><para>6.
 cd into the /bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.</para><para>7.
 Use the +port <span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:port option to pass the Listen port to your Broker.
 For example:oplshut +port 5000
 Evidence
netstat -a Session Rules Book</span></para></section></docbook>