<docbook><section><title>UnableToPerformAShutdown</title><title> Error Message: Unable to perform a shutdown (You are not authorized to initiate shutdown) </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to perform a shutdown (You are not authorized to initiate shutdown)</computeroutput> 
<para> Take the following action to rectify this problem.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Open your server&#39;s <computeroutput>oplrqb.ini</computeroutput> file in a text editor (vi, emacs, TextEdit.app, BBEdit.app, Notepad.exe, Wordpad.exe, etc.).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Request Broker]</computeroutput> section.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>HostNameResolver</computeroutput> parameter.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that there are no semicolons in front of <computeroutput>HostNameResolver</computeroutput>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Set <computeroutput>HostNameResolver=No</computeroutput> to match exclusively by IP address.
 If <computeroutput>HostNameResolver=Yes</computeroutput>, DNS lookups will be used, but these may simply echo the IP address, or any of several hostnsmes (e.g., <computeroutput>arthur</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>arthur.example.com</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>192.168.123.234</computeroutput>, others).
<programlisting>[Request Broker]
BinaryDirectory = c:\openlink\openlink software\uda\multi-tier\v5.0\bin
CommandLine = -dv
Protocols = tcp
;MaxAgents = 0
;MaxConnections = 0
HostNameResolver = No
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <computeroutput>[Security]</computeroutput> section.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that both <computeroutput>ShutdownBy</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>ShutdownFrom</computeroutput> are set, and that there are no leading semicolons (&quot;<computeroutput>;</computeroutput>&quot;) or hashes (&quot;<computeroutput>#</computeroutput>&quot;) on these lines.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that the user issuing the shutdown command (e.g., <computeroutput>george</computeroutput>) is included in the <computeroutput>ShutdownBy</computeroutput> value.
 Ensure that the IP address and all likely DNS lookup results for the machine they&#39;re using (e.g., <computeroutput>arthur</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>arthur.example.com</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>192.168.123.234</computeroutput>), are included in the <computeroutput>ShutdownFrom</computeroutput> value.
 Note that regex is active on these values, so you must escape the dot-separators in IP addresses and host names; you may need to escape other characters, depending on your host- and user-names.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> In this example, users <computeroutput>root</computeroutput> and <computeroutput>george</computeroutput> can issue Startup and Shutdown commands, from the Broker host itself, or from the listed remote host -- <programlisting>[Security]
StartupBy = root, george
ShutdownBy = root, george
ShutdownFrom = arthur, arthur\.example\.com, 192\.168\.123\.234, localhost, 127\.0\.0\.1
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You may wish to test with these set to wildcard values, but note that this is a potential security issue which can open a Denial Of Service vulnerability, especially in the <computeroutput>ShutdownFrom</computeroutput> setting.
<programlisting>[Security]
StartupBy = *, .*
ShutdownBy = *, .*
ShutdownFrom = *, .*
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Save your changes.
</listitem>
<listitem> Force-quit the Request Broker, using the Process Manager on Windows, <computeroutput>kill</computeroutput> command on Unix, or similar techniques.
 Confirm that the process has been terminated before proceeding.
</listitem>
<listitem> Launch your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test a friendly Broker shutdown, using <computeroutput>oplshut</computeroutput>, the Services control panel on Windows, etc.</listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Evidence </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Session Rulebook </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>