<docbook><section><title>UnableToOpenOpenLinkCommunicationsRegistryKey</title><title> Error Message: Unable to Open OpenLink Communications Registry Key </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to Open OpenLink Communications Registry Key</computeroutput> 
<para>The OpenLink Client Configuration Utility (<computeroutput>oplcfg32.exe</computeroutput>) is a simple utility with specific and limited functionality.
 It allows users to alter a variety of communications and other settings whose default values are generally optimal.</para><para>If you need to use the utility (if we&#39;ve instructed you to, for instance), and receive the <computeroutput>Unable to Open OpenLink Communications Registry Key</computeroutput> message, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Create and test a System DSN.
 This &quot;initializes&quot; the Registry settings for our components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Log in to Windows as an Administrator, and try again.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>If the problem persists, you may have a corrupt Registry.
 To recover, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Start a DOS/CMD session.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute the regedit command.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the following registry branch: <programlisting>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Delete the <computeroutput>OPENLINK.INI</computeroutput> branch.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the Registry Editor.
</listitem>
<listitem> Log in to Windows as an Administrator, and reinstall our driver(s).
</listitem>
<listitem> Try using the OpenLink Client Configuration Utility again.</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>