<docbook><section><title>UnableToAllocateServerHandle</title><title> Error Message: Unable to Allocate Server Handle </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to Allocate Server Handle</computeroutput> 
<para>&quot;Server handle&quot; errors suggest environment or compatibility problems.
 If you receive &quot;server handle&quot; errors, take the action indicated for your target database and driver type.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Oracle </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Oracle with Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the machine that contains the problem driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that this machine contains a full Oracle database install, Net 8/9/10/11, or an Instant Client.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the oracle user owns the driver installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the &quot;bitness&quot; of the driver matches the &quot;bitness&quot; of the Oracle instance, i.e., 32-bit or 64-bit.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure ORACLE_HOME passes the path to local Oracle installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure ORACLE_SID names the target ORACLE_SID wherever it resides.
</listitem>
<listitem> Identify the directory that contains the Oracle libraries.
 Instant Client installations generally consist of one directory that serves as both $ORACLE_HOME and the library directory.
 Full installations and Oracle client installations tend to have lib, lib32, and/or lib64 sub-directories that contain various libraries.
 You want to identify the library directories that match the bit format of your OpenLink driver.
</listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the library path variable appropriate to your OS includes the directory that contains the relevant Oracle libraries.
 The library variables are: 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> <emphasis>AIX</emphasis> </entry><entry> LIBPATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>HP-UX</emphasis> </entry><entry> 32-bit libraries: SHLIB_PATH  64-bit libraries: LD_LIBRARY_PATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>All Other Unix-like OS</emphasis> </entry><entry> LD_LIBRARY_PATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Windows</emphasis> </entry><entry> PATH </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Oracle with Multi-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Log in to the machine that contains your OpenLink server components.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that this machine contains a full Oracle database install, Net 8/9/10/11, or an InstantClient.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the oracle user owns the installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the &quot;bitness&quot; of the driver matches the &quot;bitness&quot; of the Oracle instance, i.e., 32-bit or 64-bit.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure ORACLE_HOME passes the path to local Oracle installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure ORACLE_SID names the target ORACLE_SID wherever it resides.
</listitem>
<listitem> Identify the directory that contains the Oracle libraries.
 Instant Client installations generally consist of one directory that serves as both $ORACLE_HOME and the library directory.
 Full installations and Oracle client installations tend to have lib, lib32, and/or lib64 sub-directories that contain various libraries.
 You want to identify the library directories that match the bit format of your OpenLink installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the library path variable appropriate to your OS includes the directory that contains the relevant Oracle libraries.
 The library variables are: 
<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row><entry> <emphasis>AIX</emphasis> </entry><entry> LIBPATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>HP-UX</emphasis> </entry><entry> 32-bit libraries: SHLIB_PATH  64-bit libraries: LD_LIBRARY_PATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>All Other Unix-like OS</emphasis> </entry><entry> LD_LIBRARY_PATH </entry></row>
<row><entry> <emphasis>Windows</emphasis> </entry><entry> PATH </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
 </listitem>
<listitem> cd into the bin sub-directory of your OpenLink installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the oplrqb.ini file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the [Environment ORACLE*] section that corresponds to your OpenLink database agent.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment ORACLE100]
ORACLE_HOME = /dbs5/oracle9i/64bit/v9.2.0.1.0
ORACLE_SID = ora92
LD_LIBRARY_PATH = /dbs5/oracle9i/64bit/v9.2.0.1.0/lib
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that the ORACLE_HOME, ORACLE_SID, and LIBPATH/SHLIB_PATH/LD_LIBRARY_PATH variables are properly set here as well.
</listitem>
<listitem> Exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Execute the following command: oplshut +reinit </listitem>
<listitem> Run ls and identify your database agent binary.
 A few of the possibilities are: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> ora100_mv </listitem>
<listitem> ora100_sv </listitem>
<listitem> ora90_mv </listitem>
<listitem> ora90_sv </listitem>
<listitem> ora81_mv </listitem>
<listitem> ora81_sv </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that your database agent produces a version string by running passing -? to your agent on the command line.
 For example: <programlisting>bash-2.03$ ./ora90_mv -?
Oracle 9.x Database Agent (multi threaded)
Version 1.29 as of Mon Nov 13 2006 (Release 6.0 cvsid 00084).
Compiled for Solaris 5.8 (sparc-sun-solaris2.8-32)
Copyright (C) OpenLink Software.
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Progress </bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Server handle&quot; errors suggest environment or compatibility problems.
 If you receive &quot;server handle&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Progress with Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Ensure that your Progress database is running in sockets mode.
</listitem>
<listitem> Ensure that you are passing the correct sockets parameters (-S service name or port, -H hostname or IP address, -N network, -db /path/to/database) in the Database Options field of your DSN.
 For example: <programlisting>-S pro82a -N tcp -H saturnus.example.com
-S pro82a -N tcp -H saturnus.example.com -db C:\wrk\my_prog.db
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Ensure the value passed to -S is <ulink url="TroubleshootingUDAServicesFiles">defined with the same name and number</ulink> in the <computeroutput>services</computeroutput> file on the clients on the Progress host.
</listitem>
<listitem> Leave the Server Options field blank.
</listitem>
<listitem> If you have a Windows client, search it for progress.ini.
 Place a copy of progress.ini in your client&#39;s <computeroutput>%WINDOWS%</computeroutput> directory.
 (Normally this directory is either located at <computeroutput>C:\Windows\</computeroutput> (Windows 95/98/ME) or <computeroutput>C:\WINNT\</computeroutput> (Windows NT/2000/XP/2003), but it may be located elsewhere.) </listitem>
<listitem> Add the full path to your local Progress <computeroutput>\bin</computeroutput> directory to your System <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput> variable.
</listitem>
<listitem> If using IIS: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Create a new folder, e.g., <computeroutput>C:\temp\</computeroutput>, and ensure that the &quot;<computeroutput>Everyone</computeroutput>&quot; group has &quot;Full Control&quot; over this folder.
</listitem>
<listitem> Add <computeroutput>-T c:\temp</computeroutput> (modified as needed to reflect the folder you just created) to Session Options, following the default <computeroutput>-d mdy</computeroutput> entry, in the ODBC Data Source -- <programlisting>-d mdy -T c:\temp
</programlisting></listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Progress with Multi-Tier Drivers </bridgehead>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Determine if your Progress database is running in sockets or shared memory mode.
</listitem>
<listitem> If your database is running in shared memory mode, leave the Database Server or DB Connect Options field of your Data Source blank.
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> If your database is running in sockets mode, pass the sockets parameters (<computeroutput>-S</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-H</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-N</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>-db</computeroutput>, respectively for <emphasis>S</emphasis>ervice, <emphasis>H</emphasis>ost, <emphasis>N</emphasis>etwork, and <emphasis>d</emphasis>ata<emphasis>b</emphasis>ase).
 For example: <programlisting>-S pro82a -N tcp -H saturnus.example.com
-S pro82a -N tcp -H saturnus.example.com -db C:\wrk\my_prog.db        
</programlisting></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> Use a text editor to open the Broker Rulebook (typically found at <computeroutput>~/openlink/bin/oplrqb.ini</computeroutput>, alongside the Broker executable, <computeroutput>oplrqb</computeroutput>).
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the Environment corresponding to the relevant Agent Template, typically <computeroutput>[generic_proxxx]</computeroutput>.
 For example: <programlisting>[Environment PROGRESS82A]
;TABLEVIEW           =
;TABLEVIEW_QUALIFIER = Y
;DEADLOCK_TIMEOUT    = 60          ; Seconds to wait for lock to release
;INSERT_LOGICAL      = Y
;UPDATE_LOGICAL      = Y
;MIN_FIELD_LEN       =
;MAX_FIELD_LEN       =
CURSOR_SENSITIVITY  = LOW
DLC                 = D:\DBS\Progress\Pro82a
PATH                = D:\DBS\Progress\Pro82a\BIN;D:\WINNT\System32
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> Confirm that the environment variables (<computeroutput>DLC</computeroutput>, <computeroutput>PATH</computeroutput>) are correct for your environment.
</listitem>
<listitem> Save any changes and exit the file.
</listitem>
<listitem> Restart your Request Broker.
</listitem>
<listitem> Test your connection.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Evidence </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> Data Source Attributes </listitem>
<listitem> Exact DBMS Version (e.g., Progress 8.1A04, Oracle 8.1.7.3) </listitem>
<listitem> Single-Tier Driver Version, Date, and File Details </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>