<docbook><section><title>UnableToCreateListenerAddressAlreadyInUse</title><para> </para><title> Error Message: Unable to create listener (Address already in use) </title> Error Message: <computeroutput>Unable to create listener (Address already in use)</computeroutput> 
<para>&quot;Unable to create listener&quot; errors are returned when some other service is utilizing the Broker&#39;s UDP or TCP ports; this may be a previously started instance of the Broker, or any other process.
 If you receive &quot;Unable to create listener&quot; errors, take the following action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Access the Multi-Tier server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Use <emphasis><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikips -ef | grep oplrqb | grep -v grep</span></emphasis> (Unix) or the Task Manager (Windows) to search for a running Broker process.
 If you find one, terminate it.
 You cannot run two Broker instances on one machine.
</listitem>
<listitem> If no Brokers are running, run <emphasis><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikinetstat -a | grep 60001</span></emphasis> from DOS or a UNIX terminal to check whether another service is using UDP Port <emphasis>60001</emphasis>.
 If so, try to reassign that service, or start the Broker before the other service.
</listitem>
<listitem> If UDP port <emphasis>60001</emphasis> is free, use <emphasis><span style="color: red">
      UNKNOWN tag:
      http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:nowikinetstat -a | grep &lt;port-number&gt;</span></emphasis> to check the status of the Broker&#39;s <emphasis>Listen</emphasis> and <emphasis>PortLow</emphasis> TCP ports.
 These ports both default to <emphasis>5000</emphasis>.
 However, you may want to verify your settings.
 Take the following action: <orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Use a text editor to open your <emphasis>oplrqb.ini</emphasis> file.
 You will find this file in the <emphasis>/bin</emphasis> sub-directory of your Multi-Tier server components installation.
</listitem>
<listitem> Locate the <emphasis>[Protocol TCP]</emphasis> section.
</listitem>
<listitem> Note the values set for <emphasis>PortLow</emphasis> and <emphasis>Listen</emphasis>.
</listitem>
<listitem> Search for these port numbers in your <emphasis>netstat</emphasis> output.</listitem>
</orderedlist></listitem>
</orderedlist><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Related Documentation </bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="MTFirewallConfiguration">Firewall Considerations for Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Data Access Drivers</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ConfigureServer-sideFirewallsForMulti-TierConnectivity">Configuring Server-side Firewalls for Multi-Tier Connectivity</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="UnableContactLicenseManager">Error Message: Unable to contact the OpenLink License Manager</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="OplmgrNetworking">OpenLink License Manager Networking Considerations</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="ConfigureMulti-TierRequestBrokerForUseOnMachinesWithMultipleNetworkCards">Configure Multi-Tier Request Broker for Use on Machines with Multiple Network Cards</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>