<docbook><section><title>UninstallUDASoftware</title><para> </para><title> Uninstalling Our Components </title> Uninstalling Our Components 
<para>Removing installations of our components takes different steps for different platforms.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Windows </bridgehead>
<para>You may use the uninstall utility to remove existing Windows software.
 You may also use the <emphasis>Add/Remove Programs</emphasis> utility, which appears in the <emphasis>Control Panel</emphasis>.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Mac OS X </bridgehead>
<para>The following sequence will cleanly remove all iODBC and Data Access components added by our installers.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> Double-click the <emphasis><computeroutput>Uninstall.command</computeroutput></emphasis> script (<computeroutput>/Applications/OpenLink/Universal Data Access Drivers (* Tier Edition)</computeroutput>).
 If the script is not present,  skip ahead to #3. </listitem>
<listitem> Answer the questions posed by the script.
 Please note that you must answer with the mixed-case, full-word answers.
 Anything other than `<emphasis><computeroutput>Yes</computeroutput></emphasis>`, `<emphasis><computeroutput>All</computeroutput></emphasis>`, or `<emphasis><computeroutput>Quit</computeroutput></emphasis>`, will be interpreted as `<emphasis><computeroutput>No</computeroutput></emphasis>`, including `<emphasis><computeroutput>y</computeroutput></emphasis>`, `<emphasis><computeroutput>Y</computeroutput></emphasis>`, and `<emphasis><computeroutput>yes</computeroutput></emphasis>`. </listitem>
<listitem> Verify that all of the following directories (including contents), and specified individual files, have been removed -- <programlisting>/Applications/iODBC
/Applications/OpenLink*
/Library/Application Support/iodbc
/Library/Application Support/openlink
/Library/Frameworks/iODBC*
/Library/Java/Extensions/libopljodbc*.jnilib
/Library/Java/Extensions/opljdbc*.jar
/Library/Java/Extensions/virtjdbc*.jar
/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.openlinksw.*
/Library/ODBC/OpenLink*
/Library/Receipts/iODBC*
/Library/Receipts/Opl*
/Library/Receipts/UDA*
/Library/Receipts/VIRT*
/Library/Receipts/Virt*
/Library/StartupItems/Oplmgr
/Users/*/Library/Preferences/com.openlinksw*
/Users/*/Library/Saved Application State/com.openlinksw*
/private/var/db/receipts/com.openlinksw.*
</programlisting></listitem>
<listitem> You can copy and paste the following command into Terminal.app to remove all of the above -- <programlisting>sudo rm -rf /Applications/iODBC /Applications/OpenLink* &quot;/Library/Application Support/iodbc&quot; &quot;/Library/Application Support/openlink&quot; /Library/Frameworks/iODBC* /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.openlinksw.* /Library/ODBC/OpenLink* /Library/Receipts/iODBC* /Library/Receipts/Opl* /Library/Receipts/UDA* /Library/Receipts/VIRT* /Library/Receipts/Virt* /Library/StartupItems/Oplmgr /Library/Java/Extensions/libopljodbc* /Library/Java/Extensions/opljdbc* /Library/Java/Extensions/virtjdbc* /Users/*/Library/Preferences/com.openlinksw* /Users/*/Library/Saved\ Application\ State/com.openlinksw* /private/var/db/receipts/com.openlinksw.* 
</programlisting> </listitem>
</orderedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Unix-like OS -- AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, etc.
 </bridgehead>
<para>We do not provide an uninstall utility for Unix-like platforms.
 <emphasis><computeroutput>rm</computeroutput></emphasis> and <emphasis><computeroutput>rmdir</computeroutput></emphasis> should be used to remove existing deployments.</para></section></docbook>