<docbook><section><title>UseExcelForWebQueries</title><title> Using Microsoft Excel&#39;s Web Query functionality on Mac OS X </title> Using Microsoft Excel&#39;s Web Query functionality on Mac OS X 
<para>You may have seen an error message like </para><blockquote><emphasis>To refresh a query, you must first install the appropriate ODBC driver for this version of Excel on your computer.
 For information about obtaining ODBC drivers, visit Microsoft website at <ulink url="http://microsoft.com/mac/">http://microsoft.com/mac/</ulink>.</emphasis> </blockquote><para>Microsoft&#39;s knowledgebase suggests a need a for ODBC drivers to enable Web Query and other functionality in Excel on Mac, but this is not accurate.</para><para>Microsoft Excel (and more accurately Microsoft Query) <emphasis>do</emphasis> depend on iODBC library files.</para><para>iODBC is the free and open source ODBC driver manager on Mac OS X, which we (OpenLink Software) maintain &amp; support, and which Apple has bundled into Mac OS X since <ulink url="https://opensource.apple.com/release/mac-os-x-103/">Panther (10.3.x)</ulink>, up to and including <ulink url="https://opensource.apple.com/release/os-x-1013/">High Sierra (10.13.x)</ulink>.</para><para>Unfortunately, Apple has always lagged behind updates made to the iODBC project -- today, Apple is shipping iODBC 3.52.6 (October, 2007) in High Sierra, even though iODBC has been updated several times, to deliver compatibility with various macOS updates (see the iODBC <ulink url="http://www.iodbc.org/dataspace/iodbc/wiki/iODBC/ChangeNotes">change log</ulink>) —
</para><table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>  3.52.7  </entry><entry>  September, 2009  </entry><entry>  Lion (10.7.x)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  3.52.8  </entry><entry>  March, 2012  </entry><entry>  Mountain Lion (10.8.x)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  3.52.9  </entry><entry>  April, 2014  </entry><entry>  Mavericks (10.9.x)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  3.52.10  </entry><entry>  February, 2015  </entry><entry>  Yosemite (10.10.x)  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  3.52.12  </entry><entry>  June, 2016  </entry><entry>  El Capitan (10.11.x),  Sierra (10.12.x),  and High Sierra (10.13.x);  expected to be fully compatible with Mojave (10.14.x)  </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> Also troublesome, Apple bundles only &quot;dylib&quot; files, while Microsoft and others depend on &quot;Frameworks&quot; versions of these libraries.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Enabling Web Queries in Microsoft Excel </bridgehead>
<para>This takes just a few steps on your Mac.</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Update Microsoft Office</emphasis>, which you can do through the Excel <emphasis>HELP</emphasis> menu, &quot;<emphasis>Check for Updates</emphasis>.&quot;  Repeat this step until no more updates are found.
 (Office 2011 14.1.2 is the earliest version compatible with OS X Lion or later.
 We recommend applying all available Office updates, for both Office 2011 and Office 2016.) </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis><ulink url="http://download3.openlinksw.com/uda/components/7.0/universal-apple-macosx10.7-32/mxkozzzz.dmg">Download the latest iODBC installer</ulink></emphasis> which requires no license to function.
 <emphasis>There is no cost</emphasis> for this installation nor for use of the iODBC components. </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Follow one of these guides</emphasis> to create Web Query files for Excel.
 The same instructions are applicable to all versions of Excel for Mac OS X.
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/274787">Microsoft Knowledgebase guide</ulink> (no longer on Microsoft&#39;s own site; <ulink url="https://web.archive.org/web/20150311110128/http://support.microsoft.com/kb/274787">here&#39;s an Archive.org capture</ulink>) </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="http://www.dummies.com/how-to/content/using-a-web-query-to-load-tables-in-excel-2011-for.html">Third-party user guide</ulink>  </listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Tell Microsoft</emphasis> that their documentation needs updating, to say that only the iODBC Frameworks are needed for such Web Query tasks, not any ODBC Drivers.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>