<docbook><section><title>WhatDoesCustomCatalogViewsDo</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">What does Custom Catalog Views do?</bridgehead>
<para>&quot;Custom Catalog Views&quot; dictates whether custom <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> views are used to return metadata for certain ODBC catalog functions; <ulink url="SQLForeignKeys">SQLForeignKeys</ulink>, <ulink url="SQLPrimaryKeys">SQLPrimaryKeys</ulink>, <ulink url="SQLProcedureColumns">SQLProcedureColumns</ulink>, SQLProcedures, and <ulink url="SQLSpecialColumns">SQLSpecialColumns</ulink>.
 These custom views provide more metadata than is normally provided by the standard Oracle data dictionary views.</para><para>To create and use the views, you must first run the odbccat[8|9].sql script.
 Use the following steps to perform that action:</para><orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>.
 Login to the machine that contains the Oracle DBMS.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 su to the oracle user.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 Execute the .profile associated with the oracle user.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 cd into the bin sub-directory of the Oracle installation.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 Run the Oracle server manager command, i.e., svrmgr or sqldba.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 Connect as internal.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 Execute the odbccat.sql script like any other Oracle script file.
</listitem>
<listitem>.
 Exit the Oracle server manager.</listitem>
</orderedlist><para>The above actions will result in the creation of the following views:</para><para>OPENLINK$SQL_ FOREIGN_ KEYS OPENLINK$SQL_ PRIMARY_ KEYS OPENLINK$SQL_ SPEC_ COLUMNS OPENLINK$SQL_ PROC_ COLUMNS OPENLINK$SQL_ PROCEDURES OPENLINK$SQL_ PROCS_ NOCOUNT </para></section></docbook>