<div id="id16065" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

### 6.3.9. Setting CPU Affinity

</div>

</div>

</div>

If one runs multiple Virtuoso processes on a physical machine it may be
advantageous to bind the processes to a physical CPU. In this way one
may be certain that memory allocated for the processes is local to the
CPU on which the process runs. This is specially important for servers
with more than 2 CPU sockets, as there can be high variability in memory
access latency Even with dual-socket Intel servers there caan be
performance gains of up to 20% from setting CPU affinity if the workload
is well balanced. On the other hand if the workload is not balanced,
binding a process to a CPU may lead to less platform utilization than
not specifying affinity.

There are two settings in the virtuoso.ini for affinity:

<div class="orderedlist">

1.  <span class="emphasis">*Affinity*</span>

    is the overall affinity for threads of the server process and is
    specified by comma-separated CPU numbers or ranges of numbers.

2.  <span class="emphasis">*ListenerAffinity*</span>

    is the affinity of the thread handling incoming cluster traffic. In
    the interest of low latency, it may be advantageous to bind the
    listener thread to a core of its own, so that it will never be
    preempted. This can decrease the incidence of blocking on write for
    other processes since incoming messages will be read at full
    interface speed all the time.

</div>

For example:

``` programlisting
...
Affinity = 1-7, 16-23
ListenerAffinity = 0
...
```

specifies that the process is bound to CPU 0 of a dual socket 16 core 32
thread system.

See numactl -- hardware for the actual numbers of the cores on each CPU.
CPU 0, i.e. first thread of first core is here exclusively allocated to
network traffic and canbnot be preempted by any other thread running for
the server process.

</div>
