<div id="htmlconductorbar" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

## 6.2. HTML based Administration Console (Conductor) Guide

</div>

<div>

<div class="abstract">

**Abstract**

This section describes how to administer the Virtuoso server from the
Conductor interface. It primarily allow users to administer the server
while giving access to many of the features that Virtuoso has to offer
providing many conceptual demonstrations and introductions.

Most of the pages from the administration interface are provided to help
administrators quickly and easily tune the Virtuoso server or navigate
the various interfaces and features that Virtuoso has to offer.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="conductorbar" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

### 6.2.1. Virtuoso Conductor Administration

</div>

</div>

</div>

The Main Navigation Bar provides different tabs that allow you to
administrate your Virtuoso server or use one of the provided samples.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuimenucutout" class="figure">

**Figure 6.1. Navigation**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Navigation](images/menu-cutout.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "System Admin" you can view and change the Conductor Dashboard,
manage user accounts; scheduler; Virtuoso Server parameter and Access
Control Settings. You can also install /upgrade /uninstall Virtuoso
packages and Monitor Virtuoso Server Statistics.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuisystemadmin" class="figure">

**Figure 6.2. System Administration**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![System Administration](images/systemadmin.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "Database" you can administrate your database, manage the Virtuoso
Relational Database System, administrate views, tables, stored
procedures, trigger definitions, user define types, backups.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuidatabase" class="figure">

**Figure 6.3. Database Administration**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Database Administration](images/database.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "Replication" you can create Snapshot Replications to copy sections
of the Database to remote locations or use Transactional Replication to
keep Virtuoso Servers in sync over a definable interval.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuireplication" class="figure">

**Figure 6.4. Replication**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Replication](images/replication.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "Web Application Server" you can configure Virtuoso's WebDAV, and
HTTP Server functionality, which includes management of Virtual Domains
& Directories.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuiwebdav" class="figure">

**Figure 6.5. Web Application Server Administration**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Web Application Server Administration](images/webdav.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "XML" you can query Relational and XML Data using SQL, XQUERY,
XPATH, and FREE TEXT.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuiquerytools" class="figure">

**Figure 6.6. Query Tools**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Query Tools](images/querytools.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "Web Services" you can add/ edit/ remove Web Services Endpoints,
perform WSDL Import/Export, manage your BPEL processes.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuiwebservices" class="figure">

**Figure 6.7. Web Services**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![Web Services](images/webservices.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

From "Linked Data" tab you can execute/save/load SPARQL queries,
add/edit RDF Mapping, make statistics, manage graphs, import schemas and
define namespaces, generated Linked Data Views, upload to the Quad
Store:

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuirdf" class="figure">

**Figure 6.8. RDF**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![RDF](images/rdf.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Virtuoso's NNTP support which includes linking third-party NNTP servers
into Virtuoso and controlling access to these servers.

<div class="figure-float">

<div id="adminuinntp" class="figure">

**Figure 6.9. NNTP Administration**

<div class="figure-contents">

<div class="mediaobject">

![NNTP Administration](images/nntp.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

</div>

</div>
