<div>

<div>

<div>

<div>

### 2.4.3. Installing Virtuoso 6 or earlier

</div>

</div>

</div>

Open the Virtuoso Personal Edition Disk Image file ntvpz2zz.dmg by
either double clicking on the DMG file in the Finder windows or using
the "open" command from a Terminal window, to mount the Disk Image
containing the VirtuosoPersonalEdition.mpkg installer.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.34. Mounting the Disk Image**

<div>

<div>

![Mounting the Disk Image](images/mac/v50pe00.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The installer will load the Introduction page.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.35. Installer Introduction Page**

<div>

<div>

![Installer Introduction Page](images/mac/v50pe01.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Review the Readme page for any important information concerning the
product installation.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.36. Important Information**

<div>

<div>

![Important Information](images/mac/v50pe02.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Read the license agreement and "agree" to the terms.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.37. Software License Agreement**

<div>

<div>

![Software License Agreement](images/mac/v50pe03.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Select the Destination volume the software is to be installed on.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.38. Select Destination**

<div>

<div>

![Select Destination](images/mac/v50pe04.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Choose to perform and Easy(default) installation or click on the
"customize" button to perform a Custom installation.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.39. Selecting the Type of Installation**

<div>

<div>

![Selecting the Type of Installation](images/mac/v50pe05.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

If the "Custom" option was selected in the previous step then select the
packages to be installed.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.40. Customizing the Installation**

<div>

<div>

![Customizing the Installation](images/mac/v50pe06.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The software must be install by a user with Administrative privileges on
the machine.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.41. Identifying yourself as Administrator**

<div>

<div>

![Identifying yourself as Administrator](images/mac/v50pe07.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The software components will be installed the status of which is
indicated by the progress bar.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.42. Preparing ...**

<div>

<div>

![Preparing ...](images/mac/v50pe08.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The Virtuoso Server is started at the end of this process. A Web page is
loaded to enable you to obtain a trial or full license from the OpenLink
online shop:

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.43. Admin Assistant**

<div>

<div>

![Admin Assistant](images/mac/v50pe09.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Choose to obtain a Trial license for an evaluation or enter the shop
site to purchase a full license.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.44. The Trial license page**

<div>

<div>

![The Trial license page](images/mac/v50pe10.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Click on the "Download License" button on the right to obtain the
license file immediately. An e-mail will also be sent to your registered
email address. This email contains the details of the Virtuoso license
and the location of an OpenLink Data Spaces account where you can obtain
an additional demo license at a later date.

Once a license file is available on your Mac, use the "Browse" button to
locate it. Then, use the "Set License" button to initialize the Virtuoso
server with it:

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.45. Download license**

<div>

<div>

![Download license](images/mac/v50pe11.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

Change the "dba" and "dav" user passwords from their default of "dba"
and "dav" to a value of your choice:

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.46. Change passwords**

<div>

<div>

![Change passwords](images/mac/v50pe12.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The Virtuoso Server Welcome page will now be displayed. The server is
online. This Web based page can be used for general configuration and
usage of the Virtuoso Server:

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.47. Welcome**

<div>

<div>

![Welcome](images/mac/v50pe13.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

The Installation is now complete.

<div>

<div>

**Figure 2.48. Installation complete**

<div>

<div>

![Installation complete](images/mac/v50pe14.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

  

</div>

</div>
