<div>

<div>

<div>

<div>

## 17.12. UDDI

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

<div>

<div>

### 17.12.1. Concepts

</div>

</div>

</div>

Universal Description, Discovery and Integration (UDDI) is the name of a
web-based service that exposes information about a business or other
entities and its technical interfaces or APIs. These services are run by
UDDI-enabled servers, and can be used by any business that wants to make
their information available, as well as anyone who wants to find that
information. There is no charge for using the basic services of these
sites.

By accessing any of the public sites, anyone can search for information
about web services that are made available by or on behalf of a
business. This provides a mechanism that allows others to discover what
technical programming interfaces are provided for interacting with a
business for such purposes as electronic commerce. The benefit to the
individual business is increased exposure in an electronic commerce
enabled world.

Businesses can register several kinds of simple data to help others
answer questions of "who, what, where and how." Simple information about
a business - information such as name, business identifiers (D&B D-U-N-S
Number(R), etc.), and contact information answers the question "Who."
"What" involves classification information including industry codes and
product classifications, as well as descriptive information about the
services that are available for electronic interchange. Answering the
question "Where" involves registering information about the URL or email
address (or other address) through which each type of service may be
accessed. Finally, the question "How" is answered by registering
references to information about specifications that describe how a
particular software package or technical interface functions. These
references are called '*`tModels`* ' in the documentation.

</div>

</div>
