<div id="uddiauthmech" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

### 17.12.4. Authorization Mechanism

</div>

</div>

</div>

The Publishers API describes the messages that are used to control the
content contained within a UDDI-enabled server, and can be used by
compliant non-operator implementations that adhere to the behaviors
described in this programmer's reference specification.

All calls made to UDDI-enabled servers that use the messages defined in
the publisher's API will be transported using SSL encryption.
UDDI-enabled servers will each provide a service description that
exposes a *`bindingTemplate`* that makes use of HTTPS and SSL to secure
the transmission of data.

<div id="uddiauth" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

#### Authentication

</div>

</div>

</div>

Each of the calls in the publisher's API that change information at a
given UDDI-enabled server requires the use of an opaque authentication
token. These tokens are generated by or provided by each UDDI-enabled
server independently, and are passed from the caller to the UDDI-enabled
server in the element named *`authInfo`* .

These tokens are meaningful only to the UDDI-enabled server that
provided them and are to be used according to the published policies of
a given UDDI-enabled server.

Each party that has been granted publication access to a given
UDDI-enabled server will be provided a token by the site. The methods
for obtaining this token are specific to each UDDI-enabled server.

</div>

<div id="uddiestcreds" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

#### Establishing Credentials

</div>

</div>

</div>

Before any party can publish data within a UDDI-enabled server,
credentials and permission to publish must be supplied with the
individual operator. Generally, you will only need to interact with one
UDDI-enabled server because all data published at any UDDI-enabled
server are replicated automatically to all other such servers.
Establishing publishing credentials involves providing some verifiable
identification information, contact information, and establishing
security credentials with the individual server. The specifics of these
establishing credentials is server-dependent, and all valid UDDI-enabled
servers provide a Web-based user interface through which you can
establish an identity and secure permission to publish data.

Every registry implementation that adheres to these specifications
establishes its own mechanism for token generation and authentication.
The only requirement placed on token generation for use with the
publisher's API is that the tokens themselves must be valid string text
that can be placed within the *`authInfo`* XML element. Given that
binary-to-string translations are well-understood and in common use,
this requirement will not introduce hardships.

Authentication tokens are not required to be valid except at the
UDDI-enabled server or implementation from which they originated. These
tokens need only have meaning at a single UDDI-enabled server or
implementation, and should not be expected to work across sites.

</div>

<div id="genauthtokens" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

#### Generating Authentication Tokens

</div>

</div>

</div>

Many implementations are expected to require a login step. The
*`get_authToken`* message is provided to accommodate implementations
that desire a login step. Security schemes based on exchanging User ID
and password credentials fall into this category. For implementations
that desire this kind of security, the *`get_authToken`* API is provided
as a means of generating a temporary authentication token.

Certificate-based authentication and similar security mechanisms do not
require this additional step of logging in. Instead, they can pass
compatible authentication token information such as a certificate value
within the *`authInfo`* element provided on each of the publisher's API
messages. If certificate-based authentication or similar security is
employed the use of the *`get_authToken`* and *`discard_authToken`*
messages is optional.

</div>

</div>
