<div id="virtwhydoi" class="section">

<div class="titlepage">

<div>

<div>

## 1.2.Â Why Do I Need Virtuoso?

</div>

</div>

</div>

You need Virtuoso because Knowledge is power or competitive advantage
(depending on how you choose to exploit it). All Knowledge comes from
Information. Information is produced from Data.

The Internet is reducing the cost of accessing Information, thereby
increasing the appetite and rates at which Information is produced and
consumed. Unfortunately data required for the production of Information
simply does not reside within one database engine within your
organization.

Whether you know it or not it is highly probable that the quest for
critical information within your organization actually requires
traversing several data sources served by numerous database engines from
different database vendors.

Virtuoso simply reduces the cost of bringing together data from
different data sources with the view to accelerating the production of
information by your Query Tools, Web & Internet Application Development
Environments, Traditional Application Development Tools, and Desktop
Productivity Tools.

Virtuoso enables you to compete effectively in the Information Age.

One of the biggest challenges facing the uptake of XML is the
availability of key XML Data itself. Virtuoso simplifies the process of
creating XML data from existing HTML, syndicated XML, and SQL databases.
Virtuoso enables real-time creation of Dynamic XML documents (DTD or XML
Schema based) from homogeneous or heterogeneous SQL Databases "on the
fly".

By implementing a number of protocols in a single server solution,
Virtuoso provides you with a unifying foundation upon which next
generation eBusiness solutions can be developed and deployed. Virtuoso
reduces the cost of bringing together data from different data sources
and leverages this into increased effectiveness of your Query Tools, Web
& Internet Application Development Environments, Traditional Application
Development Tools, and Desktop Productivity Tools. Virtuoso enables you
compete effectively in the Information Age.

OpenLink Software is an acclaimed technology innovator and leading
vendor of High-Performance & CROSS PLATFORM eBusiness solutions that
adhere to a broad range of industry standards that include: ODBC, JDBC,
OLE DB, SQL, WebDAV, HTTP, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, SMTP, NNTP, POP3, LDAP
amongst others.

Our product & services portfolio includes a suite of High-Performance
Universal Data Access Drivers for ODBC, OLE DB and JDBC, Internet Data
Integration Servers, Virtual and Federated Database Engines, Embeddable
SQL-Database Engines, Application Servers, Enterprise Portal Servers and
professional services expertise capable of handling the most demanding
eBusiness application development, deployment, and integration
challenges.

</div>
