<docbook><section><title/>
  <para>
    
    <para/>
    
    <title>
     Changing the Default Transaction Isolation Level for a
    Virtuoso Server Instance</title><ulink url="">
    </ulink> Changing the Default Transaction Isolation Level for a
    Virtuoso Server Instance
    <para>Note that changing this default may have significant impact
    on performance. For most mixed-use deployments, the unset
    default of REPEATABLE
    READ should be left unchanged.</para>
    <para>SPARQL does not support transaction isolation adjustments at
    the session level, so users focused on RDF interaction may need
    to adjust this to, for instance, READ COMMITTED.</para>
    <para>Transaction isolation may always be changed for individual
    SQL sessions.</para>
    <orderedlist spacing="compact">
      <listitem>Log in to the machine that hosts your Virtuoso Universal
      Server.</listitem>
      <listitem>Open the relevant virtuoso.ini file in a text
      editor.</listitem>
      <listitem>Locate the [Parameters] section of the
      file. For example:
        
        <programlisting>[Parameters]
ServerPort               = 1111
DisableUnixSocket        = 1
;SSLServerPort           = 2111
...
DefaultIsolation         = 4
...
</programlisting>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Locate the DefaultIsolation
      parameter.</listitem>
      <listitem>Pass the numeric value for the desired isolation
      level
        <table><title/><tgroup><thead/><tbody>
          <row>
            
            
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>unset</entry>
            <entry>as if set to 4, REPEATABLE
            READ</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>1</entry>
            <entry>READ UNCOMMITTED</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>2</entry>
            <entry>READ COMMITTED</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>4</entry>
            <entry>REPEATABLE READ</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>8</entry>
            <entry>SERIALIZABLE</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody></tgroup></table>
        For example:
        
        <programlisting>DefaultIsolation = 2   ; READ COMMITTED
</programlisting>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>Save your changes and exit the file.</listitem>
      <listitem>Restart your Virtuoso server.</listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    <para/>
  </para>
</section></docbook>