<docbook><section><title>MacODBCtoVirt</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Connect to Virtuoso (ODBC, JDBC, OLE DB, .NET)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">ODBC Data Access Drivers (Mac Client)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Configure the DSN</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Launch the OpenLink iODBC Administrator from /Applications/iODBC.</para><para>2.
 Click the System DSN tab.</para><para>3.
 Click Add.</para><para>4.
 Select the OpenLink Virtuoso driver from the ODBC Drivers listbox.</para><para>5.
 Click Finish.</para><para>6.
 Use the DSN tab to provide the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Name</emphasis> - A descriptive title for your DSN </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Description</emphasis> - An optional description of the DSN </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Server</emphasis> - Double-click to provide the IP address and TCP port associated with the Virtuoso DBMS server </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>This server requires a secure connection (SSL)</emphasis> -  Check to instantiate SSL data encryption</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>7.
 Use the Connection tab to provide the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Authentication method</emphasis> - Select <ulink url="VirtuoroClientServerChallengeProtocol">Client/Server challenge protocol</ulink>, encrypted password, or plaintext password </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Connect to the Virtuoso Server to configure more options</emphasis> - Check to poll the Virtuoso DBMS for other configurable options </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>User name</emphasis> - The Virtuoso DBA username </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Password</emphasis> - The Virtuoso DBA password</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>8.
 Use the Options tab to provide the following information:</para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <emphasis>Database</emphasis> - Select the target database schema </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Charset</emphasis> - Select the desired characterset </listitem>
<listitem> <emphasis>Automatically corret for daylight savings changes</emphasis> - Check to ensure that time data values are adjusted to counter the effects of daylight saving.</listitem>
</itemizedlist><para>9.
 Click the Finish button.</para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Test the DSN</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Launch the iODBC Demo program from /Applications/iODBC.</para><para>2.
 Expand the Environment menu.</para><para>3.
 Select Open Connection.</para><para>4.
 Locate your DSN using the iODBC Data Source Chooser.</para><para>5.
 Highlight your DSN.</para><para>6.
 Click OK.</para><para>7.
 Provide authentication, as needed.</para><para>8.
 Expand the SQL menu.</para><para>9.
 Select Execute SQL.</para><para>10.
 Type your SQL statement into the SQL statement text box.</para><para>11.
 Click OK.</para><para>12.
 Expand the Environment menu.</para><para>13.
 Select Close Connection.</para><para>14.
 Expand the iODBC Demo menu.</para><para>15.
 Select Quit iODBC Demo.
</para></section></docbook>