<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoErrorMessagesT</title><para> </para><title> Virtuoso Error Messages (T) </title> Virtuoso Error Messages (T) 
<para><ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ016_42S01">Table &lt;table_name&gt; already exists</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ143_37000">Tables &#39;&lt;tb1&gt;&#39; and &#39;&lt;tb2&gt;&#39; have the same exposed names. Use correlation names to distinguish them.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR054_37000">Table &lt;tbl&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD070_42S01">Table &lt;name&gt; exists as local table, cannot unlink similarly named remote table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD063_42S01">Table already exists in ATTACH</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR277_42S01">Table already exists in rename table.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ134_42000">Table already has an IDENTIFIED BY option</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR265_37000">Table being dropped is referenced in FOREIGN KEY</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ006_42S22">Table has non unique column names either directly through inheritance</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD045_42S02">Table in positioned delete is not the table of the cursor</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT034_42S02">Text index not defined for &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT035_42S02">Text index should be enabled for the table &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD030_37000">The _ROW virtual column cannot be referenced for remote tables.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT055_22023">The authentication function required in the authentication hook</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR290_42S22">The column &lt;column_name&gt; in the source table &lt;table_name&gt; doesn&#39;t have a match in the destination table &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT024_22023">The column &lt;name&gt; is not an integer</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR084_42S22">The column &lt;column_name&gt; is not defined in the given table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ149_42S22">The column &#39;&lt;column name&gt;&#39; was specified multiple times for &#39;&lt;table name&gt;&#39;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR280_37000">The column is a key or primary key part. Drop the index first</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR281_37000">The column is referenced in foreign key constraint. Drop the foreign key first</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR282_42S22">The column to drop is not defined in the given table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorNN010_22023">The command is not recognized</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ130_42000">The count of supplied parameters to Virtuoso/PL FETCH statement does not match the count of the selected columns.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR059_42000">The current name of server cannot be altered.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR199_HY109">The cursor in positioned DELETE was not on any row.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR078_22005">The cursor parameter is not settable</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR254_42000">The cursor specified is not a SELECT.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT037_42S22">The data column &lt;name&gt; does not exist in table &lt;table_name&gt; definition x</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR019_37000">The DAV collection &lt;name&gt; must added before checkpoint.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR038_37000">The dav publication &lt;name&gt; already exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR33242000">The DB.DBA.DBEV_DSN_LOGIN should return strings for UID and PWD.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD082_42S22">The definition of type &lt;name&gt; not found in SYS_USER_TYPES</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD067_42S22">The definition of type &lt;type&gt; not found in SYS_USER_TYPES</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR043_22019">The escape should be non-empty string in matches_like</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoLCKFileExistsError">The file virtuoso.lck exists.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR039_22023">The first argument to strstr is not a wide string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR021_22023">The first parameter is not valid path string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR179_07S01">The function &lt;function_name&gt; does not accept a keyword parameter &lt;param_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR050_22023">The grantee is invalid user name : &lt;grantee&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR051_37000">The grantee &lt;grantee&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD008_22023">The handle passed to rclose is not valid</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD010_22023">The handle passed to rmoreresults is not valid</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD009_22023">The handle passed to rnext is not valid</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR037_22025">The HTTP escaping sprintf escape &lt;index&gt; doesn&#39;t support modifiers</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT031_22023">The HTTP output is not an STRING session in http_output_flush</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT036_42000">The http_auth not effective outside an VSP context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT037_42000">The http_client_ip not effective outside an VSP context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT035_42000">The http_flush already done</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT034_42000">The http_flush not effective outside an VSP context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT036_42S22">The id column &lt;name&gt; does not exist in table &lt;table_name&gt; definition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR043_22023">The item type &lt;type&gt; not applicable</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR033_22026">The length of the data for sprintf argument &lt;index&gt; exceed the maximum of 2000</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT046_22023">The listen host should be equal to SSLPort</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ167_22023">The long varchar, long varbinary and long nvarchar data types cannot be used in the WHERE, HAVING, or ON clause, except with the IS NULL predicate for column &lt;name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR060_42000">The name of new server used from another publishing server.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT019_22023">The new mode should be ON or OFF, not &lt;mode&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR057_42000">The new name must be the same as in the ServerName (from INI file)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorDA011_42000">The new password for [name] cannot be empty</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD034_42000">The object (type &lt;type&gt;) is not an instance of &lt;type&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD037_22023">The object supplied is not an instance of &lt;type&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR052_22023">The path string is mandatory for DB.DBA.MKCOL</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD061_HY105">The parameter &lt;inx&gt; of the remote procedure &lt;name&gt; is an output parameter</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT044_22023">The physical path must points to the dav domain.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT045_22023">The port number of host and listen host must be the same.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT060_22023">The port number of SSL host and SSL listen host must be the same.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR313_42000">The procedure &lt;proc_name&gt; is part of a module &lt;module&gt;. Drop the module first.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR041_37000">The procedure name doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ076_42000">The procedure owner specified is different than the creator.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR042_37000">The procedures calls to &lt;name&gt; can not be replicated to more than one publication</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR047_37000">The publication &lt;acct&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR016_37000">The publication &lt;name&gt; does not exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR061_42000">The publication on &quot;[new_name]&quot; exists with the same name a on &quot;[old_name]&quot;. The rename operation cannot be performed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR045_37000">The replication server &lt;server&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTheRequestedActiveContent">The requested active content cannot be displayed due to execution restriction.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR100_22003">The requested subsequence of BLOB is longer than 10Mb, thus it cannot be stored as a string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR334_22023">The result names description should be an array in exec_result</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR335_22023">The result names description should be an array in exec_result_names</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR200_42S12">The row being deleted has no valid key.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR040_22023">The second argument to strstr is not a wide string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR024_22023">The second parameter is not valid path string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR312_08004">The server is shutting down</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD086_22023">The statement in RSTMTEXEC should return resultset</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT057_22023">The STRING session is longer than 10Mb. Use substring to access it in parts.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR007_37000">The subscription &lt;name&gt; already exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR004_37000">The subscription &lt;name&gt; from &lt;server&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ026_42000">The subtable &lt;table_name&gt; must have the same owner as the supertable &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ158_42S12">The supertable &lt;table&gt; in UNDER has no primary key.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ157_42S02">The supertable &lt;table&gt; in UNDER is not defined.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR010_37000">The table &lt;name&gt; already exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR040_37000">The table &lt;name&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT032_42S02">The table &lt;table_name&gt; is not full-text indexed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT018_42S02">The table is not freetext indexed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR046_37000">The target table &lt;target_table&gt; already exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR036_22025">The URL escaping sprintf escape &lt;index&gt; doesn&#39;t support modifiers</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorDA010_42000">The user [name] does not exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ127_42000">The user has been deleted</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN001_2C000">The UTF-8 is not a redefinable charset</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT014_42000">The vt_batch can&#39;t be used in vt_batch_feed after vt_batch_strings has been called.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT015_22023">The vt_batch_feed can&#39;t index XML tree entity argument, only textual data and XPERs are allowed</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR009_37000">The WebDAV collection &lt;name&gt; already exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR03937000">The WebDAV collection &lt;name&gt; doesn&#39;t exist</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS021_22023">The xslt parameters must be an even length generic array</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorNoLicensedConnectionsAvailableToHTTPServer">There are no licensed connections available to the HTTP Server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA021_22003">Third argument of string_to_file function, should be nonnegative offset value, -1 or -2</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD016_42000">This feature runs only on Windows NT/Windows 2000. The ODBCINST functionality disabled</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT010_42000">This function is only allowed processing a HTTP request</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIB010_42000">Timeout cannot be negative</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorB009_42000">Timeout exceeded</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR296_37000">To add foreign key REFERENCES should be specified</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR029_22023">To arg (#3) to replace was not a wide string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR299_37000">To drop foreign key should be specified NAME or REFERENCES</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR300_42S11">To modify a foreign key first drop the old and then add the new</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR302_37000">To modify a unique constraint first drop the old and then add the new</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR228_07001">Too few actual parameters</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR187_07001">Too few actual parameters for &lt;procedure_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR030_22003">Too few arguments for &lt;function_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD005_37000">Too few arguments for rexecute (dsn, text, state, message, params, max, desc, result[, handle])</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR079_22023">Too few arguments to exec_next(cursor, state, message, row)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ094_21S01">Too many (&lt;number&gt;) values in insert into &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD059_07001">Too many parameters in the call to the remote procedure &lt;name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS039_22023">Too many percent/permille characters in format-number() pattern</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR215_42000">Too many triggers on &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS025_XS370">top element is not stylesheet</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ148_37000">TOP not supported in IN, ANY, SOME, ALL, ONE subqueries</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR350_22023">TOP parameter &lt; 0</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorImageSizeWentAboveLimit">Transaction aborted because it&#39;s log after image size went above the limit</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR337_40006">Transaction aborted because the server is out of memory</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR325_S1T00">Transaction aborted due to a database checkpoint or database-wide atomic operation. Please retry transaction</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR108_4000X">Transaction could not commit after DDL statement. Last DDL statement rolled back.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR172_40001">Transaction deadlocked</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD047_40001">Transaction killed during VDB call</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD048_40001">Transaction killed during VDB operation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR114_42000">Transaction not in backup mode</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR173_40003">Transaction out of disk.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR176_4000X">Transaction rolled back due to previous SQL error.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR171_S1T00">Transaction timed out.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR314_42000">Trying to drop a module with drop procedure.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD020_42S01">Type &lt;type&gt; already exists</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD064_37000">Type &lt;type&gt; is DISTINCT. ALTER TYPE ADD ATTRIBUTE for distinct types is not supported</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD063_22023">Type &lt;type&gt; is obsolete.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD022_42000">Type &lt;type&gt; is used in one or more compiled queries. Drop them first.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR022_22023">Type for make_array must be float, double, long or any</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR354_23000">Type mismatch inserting user defined type instance as a blob for column &lt;co&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>