<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoWindowsServiceWillNotStart</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Server Startup &amp; Shutdown Issues</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Virtuoso Windows Service Will Not Start</bridgehead>
<para>If a Virtuoso Windows Service fails to start, take the following action:</para><para>1.
 Determine whether useful information can be gleaned from the error returned by the actual Services utility.</para><para>2.
 Determine whether useful diagnostic information can be found in the virtuoso.log file.</para><para>3.
 Look in the Event Log for useful, diagnostic information.</para><para>4.
 Add &quot;%VIRTUOSO_HOME%\bin;%VIRTUOSO_HOME%\lib&quot; to the System PATH variable, and test again, after restarting Services.</para><para>5.
 Determine whether or not Virtuoso Virtuoso can be started on the commandline.
 If you are able to start Virtuoso from the commandline, use the Services control manager to edit the Path to Executable, so that it is identical to what you see on the commandline.</para><para>6.
 Determine whether or not a locall firewall is preventing Virtuoso from starting.</para><para>7.
 Make sure the virtuoso server binary returns a version string on the commandline.
 If it fails to return a version string, important dependency issues may be shown.</para><programlisting>  .\virtuoso.exe -?
</programlisting><para>8.
 Use the <ulink url="http://www.dependencywalker.com">Dependency Walker</ulink> program to load the virtuoso-t.exe binary and determine whether or not there are any unresolved .dll dependencies.</para><para>9.
 Determine whether you are creating the service using an operating system user with permissions issues.</para><para>10.
 Determine whether your service is running as the &quot;Local system account&quot; when viewed in the service manager &quot;Logon&quot; tab  for the service.</para><para> NOTE: DWMAPI.DLL dependency errors are not significant.
 This DLL is required by one of the Microsoft DLLs and not virtuoso directly.
</para></section></docbook>