<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoErrorMessagesC</title><para> </para><title> Virtuoso Error Messages (C) </title> Virtuoso Error Messages (C) 
<para><ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesA">A</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesB">B</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesC">C</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesD">D</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesE">E</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesF">F</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesG">G</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesH">H</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesI">I</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesJ">J</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesK">K</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesL">L</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesM">M</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesN">N</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesO">O</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesP">P</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesQ">Q</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesR">R</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesS">S</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesT">T</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesU">U</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesV">V</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesW">W</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesX">X</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesY">Y</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesZ">Z</ulink> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorMessagesSymbols">#</ulink></para><para> </para><itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD085_42000">Can&#39;t (commit , rollback) dsn &lt;dsn_name&gt; because it is (not in manual commit , not transaction capable)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR126_22018">Can&#39;t convert &lt;column_name&gt; to numeric</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorDT010_22007">Can&#39;t convert &lt;literal&gt; to time</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD055_22003">Can&#39;t convert remote numeric &lt;numeric_string&gt; to local numeric</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ020_23000">Can&#39;t drop primary key. Use drop table instead.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR065_22023">Can&#39;t convert SQL_DATA_AT_EXEC blob to varchar. Parameter may only be used in insert or update</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ083_42000">Can&#39;t generate scalar exp &lt;type&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ039_37000">Can&#39;t have more than 1 ancestor join per table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ040_37000">Can&#39;t have more than 1 contains/xcontains per table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ041_37000">Can&#39;t have more than one xpath_contains per table</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD019_37000">Can&#39;t make a (TEMPORARY , PERSISTENT) subclass &lt;class&gt; of a (TEMPORARY , PERSISTENT) class &lt;class&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL041_HY010">Can&#39;t mix SQLFetch and SQLExtendedFetch.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA030_39000">Can&#39;t open file &lt;file_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA002_42000">Can&#39;t open file &lt;file_name&gt;, error &lt;err_no&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorTR012_37000">Can&#39;t schedule local publication</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL061_S1010">Can&#39;t set scroll on open cursor</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA037_39000">Can&#39;t update &lt;file_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD055_22023">Can&#39;t write to an user defined type column</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD022_42000">Cannot add DSN</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCR010_42000">Cannot allocate output storage. SSL Error : &lt;err&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCR011_42000">Cannot allocate temp space. SSL Error : &lt;err&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD062_HZ000">Cannot attach tables from the same server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD102_42000">Cannot compile the temp method for external procedure</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT016_08001">Cannot connect in http_get</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT021_08001">Cannot connect in http_get &lt;uri&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorPO002_08001">Cannot connect in pop3_get</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSM003_08001">Cannot connect in smtp_send</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorDT006_22007">Cannot convert &lt;literal&gt; to datetime</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR131_22005">Cannot convert &lt;string_value&gt; to number for column &lt;column_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT033">Cannot create a scheduled event : &lt;error message&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR109_42000">Cannot free global server lock if one does not hold it</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCR009_42000">Cannot generate PKCS7 signature. SSL Error : &lt;err&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD029_42S02">Cannot generate remote ref to col w/ no table &lt;name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD017_HZ000">Cannot get installed drivers</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ012_42S12">Cannot inherit table with no keys &lt;name&gt;.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ071_42000">Cannot mix aggregate functions with non-aggregate functions or columns not included in GROUP BY.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA038_42000">Cannot open backup file &lt;file_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFA042_39000">Cannot open debug log file &lt;file_name&gt;, error : &lt;OS error&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD003_HZ000">Cannot pass dtp &lt;dv_type&gt; as param &lt;inx&gt; to remote execute &lt;text&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD058_22023">Cannot pass dtp &lt;dt_type&gt; as param &lt;inx&gt; to remote query &lt;text&gt;.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR181_HY105">Cannot pass literal as reference parameter.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCR002_42000">Cannot read certificates. SSL Error : &lt;err&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorDA008_08006">Cannot read from client</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT033_08003">cannot read from session</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCR004_42000">Cannot read PKCS7 attached signature. SSL Error : &lt;err&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD014_HZ000">Cannot remove DSN from ini</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD031_37000">Cannot reprint node &lt;inx&gt; for remote text</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT015_2E000">Cannot resolve host in http_get</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT020_2E000">Cannot resolve host in http_get &lt;uri&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorPO001_2E000">Cannot resolve host in pop3_get</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSM002_2E000">Cannot resolve host in smtp_send</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD023_42000">Cannot write the DSN setting to INI</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorVD024_01S08">Cannot write the File DSN</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHT003_08003">cannot write to session</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN004_2C000">charset &lt;name&gt; already defined. Drop it first</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL035_2C000">Charset &lt;name&gt; not available. Server default &lt;name2&gt; will be used.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN007_2C000">Charset &lt;name&gt; not defined</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR284_22023">Charset definition is not correct</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN002_2C000">charset_define : Charset table not a wide string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS018_XS370">child element of xsl:choose must be a xsl:when or an xsl:otherwise</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD016_37000">Class &lt;type&gt; already declared</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD017_37000">Class &lt;type&gt; declared of different language from it&#39;s forward declaration</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD018_37000">Class &lt;type&gt; declared of different language from it&#39;s superclass &lt;class&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorUD002_42S22">Class &lt;class&gt; is TEMPORARY. It can&#39;t be used as a column type</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ065_42S22">Col ref ambiguous &lt;name&gt;.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ003_42S22">Collation &lt;collation_name&gt; is not defined</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN006_22023">Collation &lt;name&gt; not defined</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ004_42S22">Collation defined for a non-string column</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR067_22023">Collation specified in cast for non-string datatype &lt;type_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ131_42S22">Column &lt;column_name&gt; from a derived table not found</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ009_07006">Column &lt;name&gt; is a BLOB column and blob columns are not supported as index parts</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ150_37000">Column &#39;&lt;col&gt;&#39; is invalid in the select list because it is not contained in either an aggregate function or the GROUP BY clause.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR274_S1001">Column already exists in ALTER TABLE</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR275_42000">Column count too large</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL031_S1002">Column index too large.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ141_37000">Column is invalid in the select list because it is not contained in either an aggregate function or the GROUP BY clause.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ159_42S21">Column names in each table must be unique. Column name &lt;col&gt; in table &lt;table&gt; conflicts with a column of the supertable &lt;table&gt;.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL058_07009">Column out of range in SQLGetData</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ138_37000">Comma expressions not allowed in an IN clause</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS017_XS370">comment body is not a string</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorHTCLI_HC001">Connection Error in HTTP Client</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT008_22023">composite document id over 32 characters long.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT039_22023">composite expected for composite_ref</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT003_22003">composite index out of range &lt;n1&gt; for length &lt;n2&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL033_S2801">Connect failed to &lt;dsn&gt; = &lt;host_port&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL043_08S01">Connection lost to server</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR050_22023">connection_vars_set expects a vector or null as argument not of type &lt;type_name&gt; (&lt;dv_type&gt;)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR051_22023">connection_vars_set expects a vector of even length, not of length &lt;length&gt; (of type &lt;type_name&gt; (&lt;dv_type&gt;))</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR052_22023">connection_vars_set expects a string as name of connection variable not of type &lt;type_name&gt; (&lt;dv_type&gt;)</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR320_42S12">Constraint &lt;constraint name&gt; does not exist for table &lt;table&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR064_22015">Conversion overflow from numeric</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR120_23000">Convert error or not possible to insert a value into a blob column</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIB008_42000">Could not clear online backup context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorB001_42000">Could not compress page [PAGE NUM]</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorB007_42000">Could not create backup file [FILE NAME]</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL047_25000">could not enlist resource manager in transaction</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorCL046_40001">could not enlist transaction</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR253_42S12">Could not find primary key on update.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIB004_42000">Could not read backup context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIB003_42000">Could not store backup context</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorIN003_2C000">charset_define : 0 not allowed as a charset definition</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR259_24000">Cursor &lt;cursor_name&gt; before first or after end. No current row.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR256_HY109">Cursor &lt;cursor_name&gt; does not have place</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR260_HY109">Cursor &lt;cursor_name&gt; does not have place &lt;name&gt;.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR255_24000">Cursor before first or after end. No current row.</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR231_42S02">Cursor does not have table &lt;table_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorFT004_24000">cursor in vt_words_next_d_id is not open or not on row</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR218_HYC00">Cursor not capable of requested SQLSetPos operation</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR251_24000">Cursor not on row in positioned UPDATE</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR198_HY109">Cursor not positioned on delete. &lt;cursor_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR262_24000">Cursor not positioned on positioned reference. &lt;cursor_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSR250_24000">Cursor not positioned on update. &lt;cursor_name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorSQ104_09000">Cursor with a sorted order by, distinct, grouping etc. is not referenceable in where current of</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS031_XS379">cyclic reference in: &lt;url1&gt; imported from: &lt;uri2&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem> <ulink url="VirtuosoErrorXS028_XS379">cyclic reference in: &lt;name&gt; included from: &lt;name&gt;</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>