<docbook><section><title>DataSpacesBulletin-2009-02</title><para> </para><title>DataSpaces, 2009-02</title>DataSpaces, 2009-02
<para>A monthly newsletter dedicated to the promotion of best practices  and education in the data access and integration communities.</para><para>Brought to you by the team at OpenLink Software</para><para>February 2009</para><para> Dear OpenLink Community,</para>
<para>The RDBMS is dead! Long live the RDBMS!</para>
<para>Just kidding.
 The RDBMS is alive and well.
 It&#39;s longevity in the data management space is assured.
 However, its position in that space is in question.
 The team at OpenLink Software has seen the future, and in that future the RDBMS is no longer the dominant force.
 The Closed World attitude that fostered the rise of the RDBMS is losing sway as well.</para>
<para> OpenLink is pleased to treat early adopters, futurenauts, curious onlookers and assorted others to a sneak peak of the new data management landscape.
Read this month&#39;s newsletters and get your Open World, Web-as-Database bearings straight.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">News &amp; Announcements</bridgehead>
 <para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Data Access and Data Management Value Redefined</bridgehead>
<para>Straight from the horse&#39;s mouth -- OpenLink President &amp; CEO Kingsley Idehen explains the decline of the RDBMS in the face of a more agile model.
 This model links data from diverse databases with heterogeneous schemas spanning the Enterprise, Web, and Internet as a whole -- all the while retaining conceptual and contextual lenses on that data.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://tinyurl.com/d5v79n">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">New Faceted Browsing Demo</bridgehead>
<para>Traditional full text pattern searches are falling away as rapidly as the RDBMS.
 Pattern searches offer astonishing numbers of hits, but their utility ends there.
 These search methods cannot present any of the context or conceptual nature of the data behind their results, because they work only with text literals.
 Servers conducting these searches &quot;guesstimate&quot; matches after milliseconds of processing -- and thus, a vast percentage of reported &quot;hits&quot; are generally not hits at all.
 They are irrelevant or non-existent.</para>
<para>Learn how &quot;Faceted Browsing&quot; facilitates meaningful data access and highly relevant hits through its interrogation of entity descriptions.
 Learn how use of interactively configurable search times control just how much data is searched so that those &quot;million&quot; hits represent real data.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/blog/~kidehen/?id=1491">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">OpenLink Tech Tweets on Twitter</bridgehead>
<para>Get in the know and blow out your RSS feeds and Twitter clients with all tech-talk, all the time.
 Linked Data, Cloud Computing, RDF, Web 3.0, Semantic Search? Yeah....
 Somebody at OpenLink is talking about it.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://twitter.com/OpenLink">Follow OpenLink</ulink></para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Developer Resources</bridgehead>
 <para>Our revised and expanded ADO.NET 3.5 tutorials now address use of the Virtuoso Virtual Database with several specific, 3rd-party DBMS engines:</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://tinyurl.com/86t74q">Virtuoso ADO.NET 3.5 Data Provider.</ulink></para>
<para> Subscribe to our OAT, UDA, OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS), and Virtuoso- oriented Wiki-based knowledgebases:</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/Dashboard">Go....</ulink></para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Tech Tricks &amp; Tips - Post-RDBMS Edition</bridgehead>
 <para>If the RDBMS come-down is news to you, take time to familiarize yourself with these other new changes in the data management milieu.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Repeat After Me -- E-A-V</bridgehead>
<para>EAV is shorthand for Entity-Attribute-Value data model.
 The EAV model breaks data out of the limiting two dimensional table logic of the RDBMS, into collections of entities that have values attributed to them.
 Thus, many perceive EAV to provide true conceptual modeling of real world objects and information.
 Early implementations of the EAV models had their own shortcomings including lack of standardization (query language, API), wire protocol implementation, scalability, and so on.
 Neverthless, EAV had real staying power.
 Limitations were outweighed by this model&#39;s ability to handle data split across heterogeneous DBMS engines, database schemas, networks, and the like.</para>
<para>Learn about advances in the EAV model which essentially seal its fate as the dominant DBMS model for the foreseeable future.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://tinyurl.com/d5v79n">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Move Over Driver Manager</bridgehead>
<para>It&#39;s time to get sponging with OpenLink&#39;s Virtuoso Universal Server!  The Sponger is part of the middleware package that comprises OpenLink&#39;s flagship product.
 It functions much like the traditional Driver Manager in so far as it loads and unloads data extraction components -- called cartridges -- that pull data from various target data stores.
 This data is then mapped back to various ontologies or schemas and is ultimately exposed as RDF Linked Data.
Unlike single-API driver managers and drivers, the Sponger and its cartridges can extract data from iCal calendars, REST URLs, (X)HTML pages, mpegs, Excel spreadsheets, Word documents, and other data formats.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/VirtSponger">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">The World is Your Spreadsheet ...</bridgehead>
<para>Shelve that spreadsheet software, and use Faceted Browsing to turn the Web into your next pivot table.
 Not convinced?  Let OpenLink&#39;s Faceted Browsing demo expose the familiar Northwind database database in a way no spreadsheet ever could.
 While traditional spreadsheet packages will undoubtedly retain some place in the foreseeable future, they will undoubtedly lose their primacy, as  Faceted Browsing wrests the task of Data Pivoting out of the grips of limited, platform-specific applications.</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://bit.ly/wJG4">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">And the Web is Your Database</bridgehead>
<para>See how a combination of a Web Browser, HTTP, and Linked Data URIs can turn Wikipedia into a structured data source:</para>
<para>   <ulink url="http://tinyurl.com/buujwa">Full story....</ulink></para>
<para> </para> 
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Administrivia</bridgehead>
 <para>We hope you enjoyed receiving this issue of <ulink url="DataSpacesMonthlySupportBulletin">DataSpaces</ulink>.
If you don&#39;t want to receive future editions of this newsletter, product announcements, or other news from <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software</ulink>, please log in to our Web site and uncheck the &quot;further information&quot; box that appears on <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/main/login.htm">your User Details page</ulink>.</para>
<para>Please do not reply directly to this e-mail.
 If you have any questions or comments regarding this newsletter, please contact us through our <ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/contact/">Web contact form</ulink>.</para>
<para>This message produced and distributed by </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink>10 Burlington Mall RoadSuite 265Burlington, MA 01803+1-781-273-0900</para><para> </para><para><ulink url="http://www.openlinksw.com/">OpenLink Software, Inc.</ulink> Making Technology Work for You</para>  
</section></docbook>