<docbook><section><title>DetectCPU</title><title> CPU Detection Help</title> CPU Detection Help
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Introduction</bridgehead>
<para>The OpenLink License Manager (oplmgr) detects the number of logical processors (historically called &quot;CPUs&quot; [short for &quot;Central Processor Units&quot;], from the time when each processor chip had only one processor core, and each core had only one thread) on which it and your OpenLink license(s) are deployed.
 (Virtual processor setups such as AIX micropartitions, Solaris containers, and Intel <ulink url="HyperThreading">HyperThreading</ulink> may cause the number of logical processors to be higher or lower than the number of physical processor cores.) You need to provide the precise number of logical processors in the host environment to obtain a functional license for that environmnt.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Optimal method -- All OS</bridgehead>
<para>All users can use our latest Web-based GUI Assistants to <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/DisplayCPUCount">detect the logical processor count</ulink> on the host operating system.
 (This detection will produce the same result as our license enforcement code.)  Users who cannot or do not want to use the Web-based GUIs can generally use operating system commands and utilities to obtain the necessary information.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Fallback methods -- OS-specific</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Windows users</bridgehead>
<para>Use the <emphasis>System Information</emphasis> utility (<emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu --&gt; <emphasis>Accessories</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>System Tools</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>System Information</emphasis>, or <emphasis>Start</emphasis> menu --&gt; <emphasis>Run...</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>msinfo32</emphasis>).</para>
<para>Drill down to <emphasis>System Information</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>System Summary</emphasis> to see the relevant information.
 It is usually best to select <emphasis>View</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>Advanced</emphasis>.</para>
<para>If in doubt, select <emphasis>Action</emphasis> --&gt; <emphasis>Save As Text File...</emphasis>, and submit the resulting file for OpenLink review.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Mac OS X, Linux, and other Unix-like OS users</bridgehead>
<para>Execute the relevant command(s) listed below for your OS, and provide that output to your OpenLink contact(s).</para>

<table><title /><tgroup><thead /><tbody>
<row />
<row><entry>  AIX 3 or earlier  </entry><entry>  <emphasis>Commands vary.  Contact support for assistance.</emphasis>   </entry></row>
<row><entry>  AIX 4  </entry><entry>   prtconf | grep Proc   </entry></row>
<row><entry>  AIX 5 or later  </entry><entry>  lparstat -i  </entry></row>
<row><entry>  FreeBSD  </entry><entry>  sysctl hw.model </entry></row>
<row><entry>  HP-UX  </entry><entry>  /usr/sbin/ioscan -fnC processor<emphasis>and</emphasis>/usr/sbin/ioscan -kf | grep processor </entry></row>
<row><entry>  Linux  </entry><entry>  cat /proc/cpuinfo </entry></row>
<row><entry>  Mac OS X  </entry><entry>  sysctl hw.logicalcpu<emphasis>and</emphasis>sysctl hw.physicalcpu </entry></row>
<row><entry>  SCO OpenServer 5  </entry><entry>  hw<emphasis>and</emphasis>uname -X </entry></row>
<row><entry>  SCO Unixware 7  </entry><entry>  psrinfo -v </entry></row>
<row><entry>  Solaris (SPARC)  </entry><entry>  kstat &gt; /tmp/kstat.output </entry></row>
<row><entry>  Solaris (x86, x86_64)  </entry><entry>  uname -X </entry></row>
<row><entry>  Tru64 (Compaq or HP)  </entry><entry>  psrinfo -v </entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para> </para>
</section></docbook>