<docbook><section><title>SystemIntegratorGuide</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Data Integration &amp; Migration Strategies</bridgehead>
<emphasis>This section addresses the needs and challenges of today&#39;s Systems Integrators.</emphasis><para>Technologists working in the system integration space need a practical roadmap that facilitates efficient decision making.
 OpenLink staff are experts in the complex realm of data integration and data migration and provide Technical Support and Professional Services to help architect your integration-based solution.
 We provide the following strategies fact sheet to jump-start and guide your project from the planning to deployment phases.</para>
<orderedlist spacing="compact"><listitem>Access all legacy holdings.
 Know the Operating Systems, DBMS, Networking Protocols, Client Applications, Data Access Middleware, Coding Languages, and other components that compose the background of your data infrastructure.
</listitem>
<listitem>Define and rank the Objectives driving your data migration or integration project.
 Common objectives include, but are not limited to: <itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Consolidation of Heterogeneous Systems &amp; Processes </listitem>
<listitem>Core Component Reusability </listitem>
<listitem>Enhanced and/or Integrated Security </listitem>
<listitem>Enterprise Performance &amp; Reliability </listitem>
<listitem>Replacement of End-of-Life Proprietary Components </listitem>
<listitem>Standards Based Solution </listitem>
<listitem>Support for Web Services, SOA, RDF, etc.
</listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
<listitem>Fully familiarize yourself with the use and limitations of popular tools such as Microsoft SQL Server <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/?id=1607">Linked Servers</ulink> and Oracle <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/blog/?id=1606">HSODBC or DG4ODBC</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem>Consider <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/main/middleware.html">OpenLink Virtuoso</ulink> as a core component in your overall solution.
</listitem>
<listitem>Choose your solution.
</listitem>
<listitem>Finalize your deployment architecture using OpenLink&#39;s architectural planning resources for <ulink url="SupportedArchitectures">UDA and Virtuoso</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://download.openlinksw.com/">Download</ulink> and <ulink url="InstallationGuides">install</ulink> your software.
</listitem>
<listitem>Review OpenLink&#39;s <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UDASystemIntegrationConfigDocs">extensive library of data integration &amp; migration articles</ulink> to locate installation &amp; configuration instructions for your chosen solution.
</listitem>
</orderedlist></section></docbook>