<docbook><section><title>TechnicalFAQs</title><title> Technical Frequently Asked Questions</title> Technical Frequently Asked Questions
<para>See Also: <ulink url="MacFAQ">Mac FAQ</ulink>, <ulink url="SupportServicesFAQ">Support Services FAQ</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Database Support</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you connect to Access .mdb files hosted on Linux or other non-Windows systems?</bridgehead>
<para>No.
 Our UDA components can only provide connection to a .mdb file if it is hosted on a Windows operating system with a full Access install.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you connect to DB2 on OS/400 or AS/400?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 We do not build components for installation on OS/400.</para>
<para>To establish connectivity to DB2 on OS/400, you can install <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/odbc-db2/">our DB2-specific components</ulink> (Single-Tier &quot;Lite&quot; Edition ODBC Driver or Multi-Tier &quot;Enterprise&quot; Edition Database Agent) on any supported operating system that has a functional copy of DB2 client networking (currently and historically called &quot;DB2 Connect&quot;).</para>
<para>You can also use our <ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/odbc-jdbc/">Bridges to JDBC</ulink>, in combination with the open source <ulink url="http://jt400.sourceforge.net/">JT/Open (formerly known as JT400) components</ulink> made available by IBM.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you support Oracle 10i on Windows Opteron AMD (x64_86)?</bridgehead>
<para>At the time of writing, we have Multi-Tier, Single-Tier (Lite), and Single-Tier (Express) drivers that connect to 32-bit Oracle 10i on Windows x86_64.
 We have Single-Tier (Express) drivers for 64-bit Oracle DBMS on Windows x86_64.
 Other driver formats are planned.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you support Progress 9.1E?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/">Yes!</ulink>  For best results, we recommend that you update to Progress 9.1E04 or later.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you support Progress OpenEdge 10.x or 11.x?</bridgehead>
<para><ulink url="http://uda.openlinksw.com/">Yes!</ulink></para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Operating System Support</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you support AIX 5.3?  What about AIX 6.x or AIX 7.x?</bridgehead>
<para>We provide 32-bit and 64-bit components built with AIX 5.2 and AIX 5.3.
 All of these are binary compatible with AIX 6.x and 7.x.</para>
<para>Our 32-bit builds for AIX 4.x are also binary compatible with AIX 5.x, AIX 6.x, and AIX 7.x.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you support Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard)?  Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard)?  Mac OS X 10.7 (Lion)?  Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion)?</bridgehead>
<para>We build and brand components for Leopard which are fully compatible with all later versions to date, through Mac OS X 10.8.2.</para>
<para>Our builds for Mac OS X 10.4 (Tiger) may also be used with Mac OS X 10.5, should a Leopard-specific build not be immediately available.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Licenses</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Do you license by chip or by core?</bridgehead>
<para>We license components by physical core.
 Software hosted on a machine with a single quad-core CPU, or with two dual-core CPUs, or four single-core CPUs, would require a 4 core license.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I download licenses from your site?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 You can purchase permanent license keys using our online Shopcart.
 The Shopcart will email the keys to you.
 You will receive a 15 day temporary key when you first download our software.
 A second, 15 day key will be stored in your ODS DAV repository.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How long do driver evaluation periods last?</bridgehead>
<para>Our evaluation period lasts 15 days.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I obtain a Single-User (1/1) license for Multi-Tier?</bridgehead>
<para>Our smallest Multi-Tier license supports up to 5 total concurrent database sessions, from up to 5 concurrent client hosts.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I deploy licenses from two different software releases on the same machine?</bridgehead>
<para>You can deploy two commercial or evaluation licenses from different releases on the same machine.
 On Unix be sure to set your OPL_LICENSE_DIR variable to point to the correct directory location before starting any service associated with our components.</para>
<para>If you are deploying Release 6.x+ on the same host as a legacy release, be sure to start all services associated with the legacy installations, before you start any services associated with Release 6.x.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I know which license file is being used?</bridgehead>
<para>Use our HTTP-based tools to <ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/DisplayCPUCount">detect the license in use</ulink>.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> General Configuration</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> How do I obtain start-up scripts for your Multi-Tier Server Components?</bridgehead>
<para>Our support team does not write start-up scripts for products in the Product Portfolio.
 Start-up scripts must be carefully crafted and customized to guarantee proper functionality in the target environment.
 Professional Services can write such start-up scripts for a fee.
 Product Support can provide a template which customers and evaluators may modify for their own environments.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Progress Connectivity</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I establish SQL-89/4GL connections to Progress OpenEdge 10?</bridgehead>
<para>We cannot enable SQL-89/4GL connectivity to Progress OpenEdge 10.0A or later.
 This is due to limitations in the Progress Development libraries that we use to build Progress agents and drivers.</para>
<para><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/MigratingFromSQL89ToProgress10SQL92Connectivity">SQL-92 connections to OpenEdge 10.0</ulink> and later are fully supported.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3"> Can I connect to Progress 9 &amp; OpenEdge 10 databases running on the same machine?</bridgehead>
<para>Yes.
 This is simply a matter of configuring the environment and .ini files associated with our products.
 Contact Product Support for additional guidance.</para>
<para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Common Error Messages and Links to Solutions</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/ConnectionRejectedByDatasource">Connection rejected by data source</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/LicenseHasExpired">License has expired</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/OplmgrNetworking">License is already in use</ulink>.
</listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/NoValidLicenseWasFound">No valid license was found</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/TooManyCores">Number of CPUs too high for license</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UnableToReceive">RPC: Unable to receive</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UnableContactLicenseManager">Unable to contact the OpenLink License Manager</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UnableToAllocateServerHandle">Unable to allocate server handle</ulink> </listitem>
<listitem><ulink url="http://wikis.openlinksw.com/dataspace/owiki/wiki/UdaWikiWeb/UnableToStartTheRequestedDatabaseAgent">Unable to start the requested database agent</ulink> </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>