<docbook><section><title>WorksheetSTstability</title><title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Single-Tier Driver, System Stability</title> Troubleshooting Worksheet -- Single-Tier Driver, System Stability
<para> Use this form to gather information which will help us better assist you.</para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> System Information</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What product are you using?    </listitem>
<listitem>What are the names of the files that you downloaded?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the product version and release number?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is the name and version of the client operating system?    </listitem>
<listitem>Provide the output of uname -a for unix and linux clients.
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Description</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Provide the text of any error message that you experience.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Describe any problem that does not produce error text.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Describe the steps that you take to reproduce this problem.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Provide Data Source Name Connection Parameters.
   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Client Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What is your database native client version?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Server Environment</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>What are your database server&#39;s kernel tuning parameters? Provide ulimit -a output for verification.
   </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database server&#39;s patch level? Provide uname -a output for verification.
   </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database&#39;s patch level?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database server&#39;s memory?    </listitem>
<listitem>What is your database server&#39;s processor count?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Problem Isolation</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Is this problem specific to one client machine?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this a consistent problem or a problem that has occured after a period of stability?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem associated with heavy load? If so, please describe.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Does the problem produce core files, stack traces, Dr.
 Watsons, or Progress protraces? If so, please submit the relevant file or Dr.
 Watson error.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem associated with a recent database or o/s upgrade?    </listitem>
<listitem>Is this problem associated with the implementation of anti-virus software?    </listitem>
<listitem>Does the problem correspond with errors in the database native log? Please provide the log for evidence.
   </listitem>
<listitem>Does the database native transaction monitor show anomalous activity?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist><para> </para>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2"> Other Considerations</bridgehead>
<itemizedlist mark="bullet" spacing="compact"><listitem>Our Single-Tier drivers may have exposed a limitation in your database native client.
 Would you consider an upgrade to Multi-Tier drivers?   </listitem>
</itemizedlist></section></docbook>