<docbook><section><title>DetermineVirtuosoPortUsage</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Port Usage Issues </bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Determine Your Virtuoso Server&#39;s HTTP/WebDAV and SQL Ports</bridgehead>
<para>There are at least two means that you may employ to determine the ports used by Virtuoso Universal Server for SQL and HTTP/WebDAV:</para><para><emphasis>virtuoso.log</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Log into the machine that contains your Virtuoso Universal Server.
2.
 Use a text editor to open the virtuoso.log file that appears in the db sub-directory of your Virtuoso installation.
3.
 Locate the entries that pertain to the last startup of the Virtuoso Universal Server.
4.
 Look for entries similar to the following:</para><programlisting>01:12:07 HTTP/WebDAV server online at 8890
01:12:07 Server online at 1111 (pid 264)
</programlisting><para> <emphasis>virtuoso.ini</emphasis></para><para>1.
 Log into the machine that contains your Virtuoso Universal Server.
2.
 Use a text editor to open the virtuoso.ini file that appears in the db sub-directory of your Virtuoso installation.
3.
 Locate the [Parameter] section.
4.
 Locate the ServerPort parameter.
 This parameter passes your SQL port.
 For example:</para><programlisting>;
;  Server parameters
;
[Parameters]
ServerPort               = 1112
</programlisting><para> 5.
 Locate the [HTTPServer] section.
6.
 Locate the ServerPort parameter.
 This parameter passes your HTTP/WebDAV port.
 For example:</para><programlisting>[HTTPServer]
ServerPort                  = 8890
</programlisting></section></docbook>