<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoStartupTerminatesAfterRunningTransactionLog</title><para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Server Startup &amp; Shutdown Issues</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">Virtuoso Startup Terminates After Running Transaction Log</bridgehead>
<para>Does your Virtuoso server process startup and then abort after running the transaction log.
 Do you see entries like the following in your virtuoso.log file?</para><programlisting>08:52:24 OpenLink Virtuoso Universal Server
08:52:24 Version 05.08.3034-pthreads for Linux as of Oct  2 2008
08:52:24 uses parts of OpenSSL, PCRE, Html Tidy
08:52:24 Database version 3016
08:52:24 SQL Optimizer enabled (max 1000 layouts)
08:52:25 Compiler unit is timed at 0.000466 msec
08:52:26 Roll forward started
08:52:26 Roll forward complete
08:52:26 GPF: search.c:1869 internal error
GPF: search.c:1869 internal error

</programlisting><para> If this is the case, you may have a corrupt database.
 Contact OpenLink Product Support and provide the following information:</para><para>1.
 How big is the database associated with the server starting up?</para><para>2.
 Is this VOS? f so, what C compiler flags were used to compile Virtuoso? Was -O used?  Was Virtuoso compiled with debug symbols? If so, start it under GDB and provide the call stack for the GPF&#39;ing thread.</para><para>3.
 Are you using the same Virtuoso executable that you used during the last successful startup?</para><para>4.
 How big is your transaction log file (virtuoso.trx).</para><para>5.
 What happens if you backup virtuoso.trx to a new location and start Virtuoso without it?</para><para><emphasis>Note:</emphasis> There is a crash dump - rebuild procedure for corrupt databases.
 See <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/backup_recovery/">http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/backup_recovery/</ulink> and  look for the &quot;Database Recovery&quot; section.</para></section></docbook>