<docbook><section><title>VirtuosoGlossary</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Glossary of Technical Terms</bridgehead>
<ulink url="#DOT">.</ulink> | <ulink url="#A">A</ulink> | <ulink url="#B">B</ulink> | <ulink url="#C">C</ulink> | <ulink url="#D">D</ulink> | <ulink url="#E">E</ulink> | <ulink url="#F">F</ulink> | <ulink url="#G">G </ulink>  | <ulink url="#H">H</ulink> | <ulink url="#I">I</ulink>    | <ulink url="#J">J</ulink> | <ulink url="#K">K</ulink> | <ulink url="#L">L</ulink> | <ulink url="#M">M</ulink> | <ulink url="#N">N</ulink> | <ulink url="#O">O</ulink> | <ulink url="#P">P</ulink>  |  <ulink url="#Q">Q</ulink> | <ulink url="#R">R</ulink> | <ulink url="#S">S</ulink> | <ulink url="#T">T</ulink> | <ulink url="#U">U</ulink> | <ulink url="#V">V</ulink> | <ulink url="#W">W </ulink>  | <ulink url="#X">X</ulink>| <ulink url="#Y">Y</ulink>    | <ulink url="#Z">Z</ulink>
<para> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para />  <emphasis>.NET</emphasis> :  Microsoft .NET is Windows-only software component that provides libraries and other tools to developers looking to rapidly build and deploy desktop applications, Web services, and other Web-based software.
 .NET supports multiple programming languages such as ASP.NET, VB .NET, C, C++, C#, and it supports Service Oriented Architectures (SOA), as well.
 See Also:  <para><emphasis>.NET CLR</emphasis> :  This is the .NET Common Language Runtime.
 It provides the means for .NET to interface with the actual operating system.
 The CLR is responsible for loading and executing code, converting application code to machine code, handling exceptions, and so forth.
 See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>.NET Framework</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.NET_Framework">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/NET/">Home Page</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Agent Web</emphasis> :  A moniker for the upcoming Web 4.0 which expresses the vision of that Web as traversible by digital agents representing users.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Aggregator</emphasis> :  Desktop or Web-based application that gathers together updates to news feeds, blogs, and other online resources into a centralized location for convenience and ease of reading.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aggregator">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Ajax</emphasis> :  Acronym for Asynchronous JavaScript.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ajax_(programming)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://internet-apps.blogspot.com/2005/04/ajax-hard-facts-brass-tacks-and-bad.html">Ajax, Hard Facts, Brass Tacks ... and Bad Slacks</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.adaptivepath.com/ideas/essays/archives/000385.php">Ajax: A New Approach to Web Applications</ulink> <ulink url="http://ajaxian.com/">Ajaxian (Blog)</ulink>  <emphasis>Ambivalence Quotient</emphasis> : Denotes mixed emotions.
 Thought not a technical term per se, persons in the high-tech industry may experience a certain ambivalence quotient in the face of FUD (fear, uncertainty, denial) when considering whether or not to adopt new, potentially disruptive technologies.
 Lack of personal engagement with burgeoning technologies may also be expressed as an ambivalence quotient.
 See Also:   <emphasis>API</emphasis> :  API is an abbreviation for Application Programming Interface.
 APIs are sets of standardized function calls that developers can use to enable their code to interact with an operating system or application.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Api">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>ARC 2.0</emphasis> : ARC is free, open source software that provides mainstream Web Developers with an RDF system comprising RDF parsers and extractors, serializers, RDF Storage, SPARQL capabilities, turtle templating, and so forth.
  See Also: <ulink url="http://arc.semsol.org/">ARC RDF Classes for PHP</ulink>   <emphasis>ASP.NET</emphasis> : Microsoft&#39;s ASP.NET is a web application development framework.
 It facilitates developers with the tools that they need to create web-based sites, applications and services.
 ASP.NET is built on the .NET CLR, which enables developers to write ASP.NET code using any of the  supported .NET languages.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASP.NET">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.asp.net/|Home">http://www.asp.net/|Home</ulink>  <emphasis>Asynchronous-JavaScript</emphasis> :  Asynchronous JavaScript --together with XML--enables developers to use client-side development techniques to produce interactive or animated web applications.
 These applications pull data from the server as an asynchronous, background task.
 Therefore, the overall look and behavior of the existing page is never affected by data pulls.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ajax_(programming">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Atom</emphasis> : This term refers to two standards; the Atom Syndication Format and the Atom Publishing Protocol.
 The former protocol is used to create web feeds similar to those created by RSS and is intended to be an improvement to RSS.
 The latter protocol is an HTTP-based protocol that facilitates the creation and subsequent modification of Web resources.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_(standard)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://xml.coverpages.org/atom.html">
Atom Publishing Format and Protocol</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.imc.org/atom-protocol/index.html">atom-protocol mailing list</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Blog Client</emphasis> :  A blog client is desktop software that provide users with an interface--typically WYSIWIG--that enables them to create blog content and publish it to blog content hosting sites.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blog_client">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Blogger API</emphasis> :  The Blogger API enables blog client applications to view and write data to the Blogger Web site.
 See Also:  <ulink url="http://www.blogger.com/developers/api/documentation20.html">Blogger API 2.0 documentation</ulink> <ulink url="http://code.google.com/apis/blogger/">
Blogger Data API</ulink>  <emphasis>Blogging</emphasis> : Blogging is the act of creating or maintaining a blog.
 Blogs are weblogs or diary-style web pages that consist of a single page of freqent updates ordered chronologically.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blogging">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/whatmakesaweblogaweblog.html">What makes a weblog a weblog?</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.spy.co.uk/Articles/Spiked/Weblogging/">The Future of Weblogging</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/05_18/b3931001_mz001.htm?campaign_id=rss_magzn">Blogs Will Change Your Business</ulink>  <emphasis>Blogosphere 2.0</emphasis> : Denotes clusters of blogs that promote &quot;Open Data Access&quot; by making their content accessible via RDF Data Sets or Virtual RDF Data Sets.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blogosphere">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Blog Roll</emphasis> :  Bloggers often add blog rolls to their own blog pages.
 A blog roll consists of third-party blogs that the blogger wants to recommend to his or her own reader base.
 These 3rd-party blogs often share the interests or affiliations of the blogger who is highlighting them.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Boca</emphasis> : Boca is an RDF Data Repository created by IBM Adtech.
 See Also:  <ulink url="http://ibm-slrp.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/BocaUsersGuide">Boca User&#39;s Guide</ulink> <ulink url="http://wingerz.com/blog/2007/02/06/text-indexing-and-query-in-boca/">Text indexing and query in Boca</ulink>  <emphasis>Bookmark</emphasis> :  A bookmark is a saved link to a Web page that users create using specialized &quot;bookmark functions&#39; present in Web browsers.
 Use of these saved links enables users to recall and revisit the target Web sites in the future.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_bookmark">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>BPEL</emphasis> : BPEL is a shortened form of Business Execution Processing Language.
 It is a standardized, XML-based language used to define and manage interactions among disparate Web services.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BPEL">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>Buffer Overflow</emphasis> :  Buffers are temporary storage areas that programs and processes access for the purpose of writing data.
 Buffers are defined to store specific, finite amounts of data, and buffer overflows occur when an appliccation or process writes data that exceeds the limitations of the buffer.
 The excess information can spill over into other buffers, and data in the recipient buffers can be overwritten or otherwise corrupted.
 Buffer overflows can be caused by faulty programming or malicious exploits.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffer_overflow">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Cartesian Product</emphasis> :  A Cartesian Product is the result set produced when you join every row in a table with every row in another table or tables in a JOIN statement.
 Cartesian Product can be resource intensive and often result from malformed JOIN queries that lack a limiting WHERE clause.
  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_product">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Channel Roll</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Cloud</emphasis> : Acts of computing are said to occur in a &quot;cloud&quot;, if they make use of remote, often virtualized infrastructure, platform, and software resources that are packaged as a service.
 The user who engages in cloud computing need have no knowledge of the underlying architecture that supports their endeavor.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_computing">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>CommentAPI</emphasis> : An XML-based namespace associated with RSS feeds.
 This namespace enables feed readers to post commentary to items that they encounter in the feed.
 See Also:  <ulink url="http://wellformedweb.org/story/9">The Comment API</ulink>  <emphasis>Concrete Conceptual Data Model</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Conditional Get</emphasis> : HTTPConditional Gets allow a  client to query a server to see if a certain document--such as an RSS feed--has changed within a certain interval of time.
 The document is only retrieved if it has changed.
 Otherwise, nothing occurs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://fishbowl.pastiche.org/2002/10/21/http_conditional_get_for_rss_hackers/">HTTP Conditional Get for RSS Hackers</ulink>  <emphasis>Conditional Upstreaming</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Content Management</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_management">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Context</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Context Lenses</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Controller (C)</emphasis> : Represents business logic in the MVC model.
 Used as a metaphor for Web 2.0 due to the primacy of Web Services during this iteration of the Web.
 See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Data Access by Reference</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Access Focal Point</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Access Middleware</emphasis> :  Data Access Middleware comprises a set of standards-based drivers and providers that allow third-party applications to view and issue ad hoc queries against data stored in DBMSs.
 ODBC, JDBC, OLE DB are examples of standards used by Data Access Middleware to communicate with target DBMSs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middleware">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Dereferencing</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dereference">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Dictionary</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_dictionary">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Heterogeneity</emphasis> : Predicated to architectures that rely on a mix of data stored in a diversity of formats and/or stored in databass from different DBMS vendors Dta Heterogeneity presents a potential problem to system integrators who are charged with integrating or migrating data between different storage formats or different proprietary DBMS products.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heterogeneous_Database_System">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Junction Box</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Link</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Link Traversal</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Object</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Object Identifier</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Object Identity</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Pointer</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data Portability</emphasis> : Based on the simple proposition that individuals should have the ability to reuse data with disparate applications, and they should be able to manage and control every aspect of that data  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_portability">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.mediaslate.org/wp/2008/03/29/dataportability-in-motion-podcast/">DataPortability: In-Motion Podcast</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.slideshare.net/Cloud/data-accessibility-and-me-introducing-sioc-foaf-and-the-linked-data-web/">Data Accessibility &amp; Me: Introducing SIOC, FOAF and the Linked Data Web</ulink>   <emphasis>Data Portability Community</emphasis> : Refers to individuals involved with, supporting, or otherwise interested in the DataPortability Project.
 The DataPortability Project consists of a workgroup comprising many technology leaders including Google, Facebook, Plaxo, Drupal, LinkedId, Twitter, Dig, Microsoft, and others.
 The workgroup endeavors to promote open standards with the goal of advancing a state of data portability.
 Supported standards include FOAF, OAuth, OpenID, RDF, etc.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_portability">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://wiki.dataportability.org/display/dpmain/Home|Home">http://wiki.dataportability.org/display/dpmain/Home|Home</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Source</emphasis> :  Data Source can refer to any formal or informal data repository such as a DBMS or flat file.
 Data Source is also an abbreviation for Data Source Name or DSN.
 In this context, Data Source refers to a collection of Parameter:Value pairs that helps an application connect to a data repository.
 These Parameter:Value pairs generally consist of hostnames, port numbers, database names, login credentials and other common attributes that help locate the data repository on a network.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Data Space</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/DataSpaceFAQ">Data Space FAQ</ulink>  <emphasis>Data Web</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Data-Web Browser</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>DAWG</emphasis> :  Denotes the W3C&#39;s RDF Data Access Working Group.
 The group&#39;s objective is to design a query language for RDF documents.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/DataAccess/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>DBpedia</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dbpedia">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://dbpedia.org/About">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Del.icio.us</emphasis> : Del.icio.us is a social bookmarking service that enables users to upload, store, and annotate bookmarks and share those bookmarks with other users of the community.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Del.icio.us">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://delicious.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Dereference</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dereference">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/httpRange-14/2007-05-31/HttpRange-14#iddiv2104118728">Dereferencing HTTP URIs</ulink>  <emphasis>Disambiguation</emphasis> :  Disambiguation is the act of further clarifying search terms that have multiple means.
 Disambiguiation can consist of presenting specialized pages or links to the searcher, which prompt that searcher to  select the intended meaning.
 For example, Wikipedia searchers may be presented with a Madonna disambiguation page that asks the user to choose between the singer and the religious icon.
 Once disambiguation has occurred, the searcher canl be presented with the relevant result set.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disambiguation">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>DISCO Hyperdata Browser</emphasis> : A Linked Data browser.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www4.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/bizer/ng4j/disco/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Disruptive Technology</emphasis> :  Disruptive technologies are any technology that has the potentially to radically and irrevocably change an industry because they have the ability to penetrate new markets or dramatically lower the price of a product or service.
 Disruptive technologies are often highly threatening to pre-existing leaders in the market from which they come.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disruptive_technology">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Distributed Conversations</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Distributed Object Database</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>DLD</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Document Data Object</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Document Object Data Address</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Document Object Identity</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Document Web</emphasis> :  The Document Web characterizes the beginnings of the World Wide Web as a collection of linked, static documents or pages.
 See Also:   <emphasis>DOM</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_Object_Model">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Domain Definition Language</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Drupal Content Management Platform</emphasis> :  Drupal is an open source platform for content management.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drupal">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://drupal.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Dublin Core Metadata Initiative</emphasis> :  The Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) is an open organization which endeavors to create a standard for online metadata to facilitate interoperability.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dublin_core">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://dublincore.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Dynamic Linked Data Page</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>EAI</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_application_integration">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>EC2 AMI</emphasis> :  The EC2 AMI is basically an unrestricted commercial edition of Virtuoso.
 See Also:   <emphasis>ECMA</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecma_International">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.ecma-international.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>ECMA-CLI</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>EII</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_Information_Integration">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Endpoint</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-oriented_architecture">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Entity Set</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>eRDF</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embedded_RDF">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>Executable Web</emphasis> : A characterization of Web 2.0 based on the rise of Web Services during this period of the Web&#39;s evolution.
 See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Federated DBMS</emphasis> : A Federated DBMS is a front-end or client DBMS that typically maps heterogeneous join queries across multiple, backend databases from DBMS vendors.
 These queries would be initiated from a client application that does not normally possess the capability to execute queries against disparate databases.
  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federated_database_system">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Flickr</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flickr">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <ulink url="http://www.flickr.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>FOAF</emphasis> : FOAF (Friend Of A Friend) describes people and relationships in a way that computers can parse.
 It is a schema which can represent both your personal profile meta-data and your social network, as well.
 Thousands of researchers use the FOAF schema in their &quot;Semantic Web&quot; projects to connect people in all sorts of novel ways.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FOAF">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.foaf-project.org/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.foafrealm.org/|FOAFRealm">http://www.foafrealm.org/|FOAFRealm</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SweoIG/TaskForces/CommunityProjects/FOAFWhitelisting">Whitelisting Email Sender with FOAF</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/FoafOpenid">FOAF Plus OpenID</ulink>  <emphasis>FOAF Data Space</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Folksonomy</emphasis> :  Denotes social tagging.
 Social tagging consists of creating and annoting online content with meaningful tags for the purpose of classification of that content.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folksonomy">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://weblog.infoworld.com/udell/2005/07/22.html#a1274">Federated folksonomy</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/13.04/view.html?pg=4">Order Out of Chaos</ulink> <ulink url="http://tomgruber.org/writing/ontology-of-folksonomy.htm">Ontology of Folksonomy</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.designmills.com/2008/05/20/tagging-in-the-semantic-web/">Tagging and the Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://novaspivack.typepad.com/nova_spivacks_weblog/2008/05/tagging-and-the.html">Tagging and the Semantic Web: Tags as Objects</ulink>  <emphasis>FOR XML SQL syntax extensions</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Free Text Search</emphasis> : Search engines that employ free text search read over every word in Web-based documents in an attempt to locate the search terms provided by a user.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_text_search">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Freebase</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaweb#Freebase">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.freebase.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Fresnel</emphasis> : Fresnel is a browser-independent, display language which describes how RDF graphs should be presented.
 Fresnel is being developed by the Semantic Web Interest Group.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2005/04/fresnel-info/">Fresnel - Display Vocabulary for RDF</ulink></para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>GData Protocol</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GData">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>GData Query Service</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Gem</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>GGG</emphasis> :  An Acronym denoting Giant Global Graph.
 Synonymous with &quot;Linked Data Web.&quot; See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant_Global_Graph">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://dig.csail.mit.edu/breadcrumbs/node/215">Giant Global Graph</ulink>  <emphasis>Global Data Integration &amp; Data Generation</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>GPL</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GPL">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Graph</emphasis> : A graph is a collection of RDF triples.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Graph Data Model</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory">Graph theory</ulink>  <emphasis>GRDDL</emphasis> : GRDDL (Gleaning Resource Descriptions from Dialects of Languages) is a markup format, which facilitates extraction of RDF triples from XML and XHTML documents.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GRDDL">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/grddl-scenarios/">GRDDL Use Cases</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Heterogeneous Join</emphasis> :  A SQL join across different databases which may be hosted in same or different DBMSs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.theopensourcery.com/wordp1/index.php?p=182">Heterogeneous Joins</ulink>  <emphasis>HTMLHttpRequest</emphasis> : Ajax-related script that uses a combination of <ulink url="XMLHttpRequest">XMLHttpRequest</ulink> and its own transport layer to dynamically load remote documents for parsing and/or insertion into a current document.
 See Also:   <emphasis>HTTP-based Data Source Names</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Identity 2.0</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_2.0">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://identity20.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Information</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Information Architecture</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_Architecture">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Information Bus</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Information Consumer</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Information Overload</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_overload">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Inner-Browsing</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Interest Activation Threshold</emphasis> :  A user&#39;s interest activation threshold is akin to a personal &quot;on/off&quot; switch.
 If technology vendors fail to activate this switch, the target audience will respond to a new technology with ambivalence characterized by lack of engagement with or interest in the new product or service.
 Once activated, the target audience will respond with enthusiasm.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://weblog.infoworld.com/udell/2004/11/08.html">Cornucopia of the commons</ulink>  <emphasis>Interlinked Structured Data</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Internationalized Resource Identifiers</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalized_Resource_Identifier">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Internet Point of Presence</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>iSPARQL QBE</emphasis> : Denotes OpenLink Software&#39;s Interactive SPARQL By Example Utility.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://demo.openlinksw.com/isparql/">OpenLink iSPARQL</ulink>  <emphasis>ISV</emphasis> :  An acronym denoting Independent Software Vendors.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_software_vendor">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Jena</emphasis> : Jena is a Java-based framework that developers may use to build Semantic Web applications.
 Jena comprises a development environment for RDF, RDFS,  OWL, and SPARQL.
 It also contains its own rule-based inference engine.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jena_(framework)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://jena.sourceforge.net/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>JSON</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.json.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Junction Box</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>K-logs</emphasis> :  A term denoting corporate blogs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.nytimes.com/2003/06/22/business/yourmoney/22EXLI.html?ex=1371614400&amp;en=aa6f8754247627bf&amp;ei=5007&amp;partner=USERLAND">The Corporate Blog Is Catching On</ulink> <ulink url="http://blogs.salon.com/0002007/2003/03/23.html#a133">A WEBLOG-BASED CONTENT ARCHITECTURE FOR BUSINESS</ulink>  <emphasis>Killer Application</emphasis> : This buzzword refers to an application or genre of applications that describes software that is deemed so mission critical or so highly desirable that it serves as a showcase for the larger technology which makes it possible.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killer_application">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Knowledge Economy</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Knowledge Worker</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_economy">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.esj.com/news/article.aspx?EditorialsID=1327">The Invisibility of Knowledge Work</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>LAMP</emphasis> :  LAMP refers to solutions that use a combination of Linux, Apache, <ulink url="MySQL">MySQL</ulink>, and PHP technology.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_(software_bundle)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>LDAP</emphasis> :  LDAP is an abbreviation for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.
 The tcp-based LDAP protocol is used by applications to access directory services.
 The directories provided by these services contain searchable and updateable tree structures that provide information pertaining to employees, organizations, and other resources.
  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDAP">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>LDSN</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>LGPL</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGPL">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Linked Data</emphasis> : Linked Data is a set of best practices for publishing and deploying instance and class data using the RDF data model, naming the data objects using uniform resource identifiers (URIs), and exposing the data for access via the HTTP protocol, while emphasizing data interconnections, interrelationships and context useful to both humans and machine agents.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_Data">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SweoIG/TaskForces/CommunityProjects/LinkingOpenData">Linking Open Data</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData.html">Linked Data - Design Issues</ulink> <ulink url="http://blogs.talis.com/nodalities/2007/05/linked_data_the_real_semantic_.php">Linked Data - the real Semantic Web ?</ulink> <ulink url="http://news.cnet.com/1606-2-6189377.html">Video: Interview: Sir Tim Berners-Lee</ulink> <ulink url="http://blogs.sun.com/bblfish/entry/2008_the_rise_of_linked">2008: The Rise of Linked Data</ulink> <ulink url="http://linkeddata.org/">Linked Data</ulink> <ulink url="http://www4.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/bizer/pub/LinkedDataTutorial/">How to Publish Linked Data on the Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://richard.cyganiak.de/2007/10/lod/">The Linking Open Data dataset cloud</ulink>  <emphasis>Linked Data Page</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Linked Data Source Name</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Linked Data Web</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>LINQ</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linq">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/netframework/aa904594.aspx">Home Page</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Mashup</emphasis> : Mashups are web-based applications that combine data from two or more, external and unrelated data sources.
 Mashups merge the disparate data for the purpose of creating a new service.
 Mashups employ brute force data joins and do not adhere to the data models underlying the original data.
 They typically involve use of RSS which is itself characterized as tree structured data with untyped links that are devoid of any type of semantic meaning.
 Compare with meshup.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mashup_(web_application_hybrid)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Meme Map</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Meshup</emphasis> : Meshups are RDF-based applications that combine data from two or more, external and unrelated data sources.
 Meshups merge the disparate data for the purpose of creating a new service.
 Meshups employ natural data joins and adhere to the data models underlying the original, typed data.
 Compare with mashup.
  See Also:   <emphasis>Metadata Annotation</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Metadata Extractor</emphasis> :  Denotes Virtuoso Sponger Cartridges which perform lookups via a binding layer to a wide variety of Web 2.0 APIs e.g.
 New York Times, Open Calais, Zemanta, Del.icio.us, and many others . See Also:   <emphasis>MetaWeblog API</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MetaWeblog">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.metaweblogapi.com/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.xmlrpc.com/metaWeblogApi">RFC: MetaWeblog API</ulink>  <emphasis>Microformat</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microformat">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://microformats.org/wiki/faqs-for-rdf">Microformat FAQs for RDF Fans</ulink>  <emphasis>Middleware</emphasis> :  Middleware is software that is specifically dsigned to facilitate communication between other software components such as applications, DBMSs, and operating systems.
 Middleware is often standards-basd and aimed at providing interoprability between products from different vendors that such the same standards.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middleware">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://radio.weblogs.com/0126951/2003/11/02.html#a72">
The Origin (Coining) of the Term &quot;Middleware&quot;</ulink>  <emphasis>MOAT</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://moat-project.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Moblogging</emphasis> : Moblogging is the act of creating blog content using a cellphone or other portable device.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moblogging">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Model (M)</emphasis> : Represents the data model in the MVC model.
 Used as a metaphor for Web 3.0 due its focus on data and an underlying, semantic data models powering the Web.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Mono</emphasis> : The Mono project was an endeavor by Ximian to produce .NET-compatible develop tools for Linux and Unix operating systems.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mono_(software)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.mono-project.com/Main_Page">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.mono-project.com/Mailing_Lists|Mono-list">http://www.mono-project.com/Mailing_Lists|Mono-list</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/34338.html">Will .Net Developers Get Mono?</ulink>  <emphasis>Mono.Security</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://pages.infinit.net/ctech/20031202-1004.html">Officially introducing Mono.Security</ulink>  <emphasis>Movable Type</emphasis> : PERL-based publishing pltform for blogs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movable_Type">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.movabletype.org/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.sixapart.com/movabletype/docs/3.2/index.html">Movable Type 3.2 user manual</ulink>  <emphasis>Multi-Dimensional Data</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensional_database">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Multi-Format Database</emphasis> :  Multi-Format Databases provide native support for some combination for structured, semi-structured, and/or unstructured data.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Multi-Homing Web Server Functionality</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Multi-Model DBMS</emphasis> :  Multi-Model DBMSs are an evolution away from typical DBMS products which employ a single, underlying data model further constrained by vendor&#39;s proprietary APS.
 Multi-Model DBMSs often provide native data storage using any combination of object oriented, relational, hierachical, and other data models, and they provide an array of standards-based access to the data contained within.
 This is beneficial for developers who need flexibility in choose of underlying data models when working with applications that need to interact with and store data in different ways.
  See Also:   <emphasis>MVC</emphasis> : Model–view–controller (MVC) is a paradigm in software architecture that dictates that the underlying data model (M), business logic (, and human interaction elements must be discrete such that each of the three software elements can be modified without impacting the other.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model-view-controller">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>N3</emphasis> :  Notation 3 or N3 is a human readable form of RDF serialization syntax developed by Tim Berners-Lee.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Notation_3">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2000/10/swap/doc/#">Semantic Web Tutorial Using N3</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Notation3">Notation 3</ulink>  <emphasis>Named Entity</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Named_entity">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Named Graph</emphasis> :  Named graphs are sets of triples named by a single URI.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Netscan</emphasis> : Netscan is an NNTP-based data mining project conducted by Microsoft.
 The objective of the project is to cull statistics pertaining to user participation in newsgroup discussions.
 See Also:   <emphasis>News Aggregation</emphasis> : News aggregators comprise XML-based software that reads Web-based news sources on a scheduled basis, culls new posts, and presents those posts in reverse chronological order.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/News_aggregation">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>NNTP</emphasis> :  NNTP is an abbreviated form of Network News Transfer Protocol.
 This is the primary protocol used to manage Usenet newsgroups.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nntp">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>OAT</emphasis> : The OpenLink Ajax Toolkit (OAT) offers a broad Javascript-based, browser-independent widget setfor building data source independent internet applications that are usable across a broad range of Ajax-capable web browsers.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://oat.openlinksw.com/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/projects/oat">Sourceforge.net Project Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/projects/oat/files">Source Code</ulink>  <emphasis>OAuth</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://oauth.net/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Object</emphasis> : In an RDF triple, the object refers to the attribute or quality that is being predicated of the subject.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Object ID</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Object Identifier</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Object Oriented DBMS</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>OCS</emphasis> : XML-baed Open Content Syndication (OCS) provides an RDF description of all external RSS feeds linked to a blog site.
 Compare with OPML.
 See Also:   <emphasis>ODBC</emphasis> : ODBC or Open Database Connectivity is a standardized set of API calls that enable 3rd-party applications to submit adhoc SQL queries to relational DBMSs.
 ODBC was developed by Microsoft, the SQL Access Group, and X/Open Company in the early 1990s.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ODBC">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>ODE</emphasis> :  The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Explorer (ODE) is a browser extension currently available for Firefox with additional browser support to follow.
 The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Explorer provides a means for viewing Data Sources associated with Web Pages.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://ode.openlinksw.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>ODS</emphasis> :  ODS is about a collection of controllers (REST or SOAP based) that enable you to work with a data enclave (data space) on the Linked Data Web.
 See Also:   <emphasis>ODS Briefcase</emphasis> : The OpenLink ODS Briefcase is an application layer that sits above Virtuoso&#39;s native WebDAV repository.
 The OpenLink Briefcase enables users to view items uploaded into the Briefcase using content type or kind (People, Business Cards, Calendars, Business Reports, Office Documents, Photos, Blog Posts, etc.).
 The Briefcase also includes  automatic metadata extraction (where feasible) and indexing.
 It supports GData, URIQA, SPARQL, SQL, and WebDAV itself.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/OdsBriefcase|Briefcase">http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/OdsBriefcase|Briefcase</ulink>  <emphasis>ODS CRUD</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>OLAP</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OLAP">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Ontology</emphasis> : Ontologies are vocabularies that embody the class and instance definitions and the predicate (property) relations that enable legacy schemas and data to be transformed into Linked Data graphs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ontology_(information_science)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Ontology Mapping</emphasis> : This is a part of the core functionality provided by the Virtuoso cartidges.
 Once cartirdges extract data from a target data store, specialized ontology mappers map the extracted data to one or more ontologies/schemas, en route to producing RDF Linked Data.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Open Data Access</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Data">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.opendefinition.org/">The Open Knowledge Definition</ulink>  <emphasis>Open Data Access by Reference</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Open Social-Networking</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Open Standard</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_standard">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenID</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Openid">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://openid.net/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.openidenabled.com/">OpenID Enabled</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenLink Ajax Toolkit</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://oat.openlinksw.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenLink Briefcase</emphasis> : The OpenLink ODS Briefcase is an application layer that sits above Virtuoso&#39;s native WebDAV repository.
 The OpenLink Briefcase enables users to view items uploaded into the Briefcase using content type or kind (People, Business Cards, Calendars, Business Reports, Office Documents, Photos, Blog Posts, etc.).
 The Briefcase also includes  automatic metadata extraction (where feasible) and indexing.
 It supports GData, URIQA, SPARQL, SQL, and WebDAV itself.
 See Also:   <emphasis>OpenLink Data Explorer</emphasis> : The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Explorer is a browser extension currently available for Firefox with additional browser support to follow.
 The <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Data Explorer provides a means for viewing Data Sources associated with Web Pages.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://ode.openlinksw.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenLink Data Spaces</emphasis> :  See Also:  <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/Ods">OpenLink Data Spaces (ODS)</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenLink RDF Browser</emphasis> :  See Also:    <emphasis>OpenSearch</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opensearch">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.opensearch.org/Home">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>OpenSearch Query Service</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>OPML</emphasis> : Outline Processor Markup Language (OPML) is a very simple XML format for storing information in outline format.
 XML being inherently hierarchical, OPML constrains XML so that a wide variety of applications can build in OPML support with the comfort of knowing it will work with any other OPML tool.
 Type of information stored in such hierarchies are web browser bookmarks, web directories, collaborative outlines, song playlists, and even web-site content, OPML is a great balance between the wide open freedom of raw XML and the feeling of security of a formal vocabulary.
 Compare with OCS.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OPML">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.opml.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>OWL</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Ontology_Language">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-guide/">OWL Web Ontology Language
Guide</ulink>  <emphasis>Owlgres</emphasis> : Owlgres is an open source reasoner for Web Ontology Language 2 (OWL2).
 Owlgres comprises both Description Logic reasoning and RDBMS-like data management.
 Owlgres is developed using PostgreSQL, and deployment with PostgreSQL is recommended.
 Owlgres’s--as a service--provides conjunctive query answering via SPARQL-DL.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://clarkparsia.com/weblog/2008/03/23/owlgres-scalable-db/">Home Page</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Payload</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Persisted Knowledge</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Persistent Cube</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Personal Data Space</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Personal Data Space in the Clouds</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>PiggyBank</emphasis> : Piggy Bank is a Firefox extension that enables users to extract data from disparate Web sites and use that data to create mashups.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://simile.mit.edu/wiki/Piggy_Bank">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://simile.mit.edu/wiki/Semantic_Bank">Semantic Bank</ulink>  <emphasis>Pingback</emphasis> :  Pingback services are used by bloggers to announce new blog content on sites such as technorati.
 Pingback services use a combination of HTTP GETs and POSTs to take a blogger&#39;s blog title, url, and new content excerpt and post it to the target site.
 See Also:   <ulink url="http://pingomatic.com/|Ping-O-Matic">http://pingomatic.com/|Ping-O-Matic</ulink>  <emphasis>Platform</emphasis> :  Denotes the combination of hardware and operating system that functions as a foundation on top of which applications and other software can execute.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_(computing)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.synthesist.net/writing/software_platforms.html">The Natural History of Software Platforms</ulink> <ulink url="http://blog.pmarca.com/2007/09/the-three-kinds.html">The three kinds of platforms you meet on the Internet</ulink> <ulink url="http://blog.jonudell.net/2007/09/21/the-fourth-platform/">The fourth platform</ulink>  <emphasis>Point-of-Presence</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Point_of_presence">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Predicate</emphasis> : See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Quad Store</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quad_store">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Query Results Serialization Format</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>RDB-to-XML Data Mapping</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDBMS to RDF Mapping</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://planetrdf.com/">Planet RDF</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de/WBS/pha/rdf-query/">A Comparison of RDF Query Languages</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-dawg-uc/">RDF Data Access Use Cases and Requirements</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2003/05/21/RDFNet">The RDF.net Challenge</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/1999/11/11-WWWProposal/thenandnow">The WWW Proposal and RDF: Then and Now</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer/">RDF Primer</ulink>  <emphasis>RDF Data Management System</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Data Set</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Data Source</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Framework</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RDF Graph</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Instance Data</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Middleware</emphasis> :  Denotes middleware that generates RDF from non RDF Data Sources such as (X)HTML, Weblogs, Shared Bookmark Collections, Photo Galleries, Calendars, Contact Managers, Feed Subscriptions, Wikis, and other information resource collections.
 The Virtuoso Sponger is an example of an RDF Middleware solution from <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software.
 See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Schema</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rdf_schema">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/">RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema</ulink>  <emphasis>RDF Schema / OWL Ontology Mapper</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Serialization Format</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Sink</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF Store</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF-based Entity Set</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF/N3</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF/Turtle</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RDF/XML</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RDF/XML">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RDFa</emphasis> : RDFa provides a means to express RDF triples inside XHTML through use of the span tag.
 This enables people to inject semantic content into today&#39;s standard Web pages.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RDFa">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://rdfa.info/">RDFa: Interoperable Web Metadata</ulink> <ulink url="http://ivanherman.wordpress.com/2007/09/03/yet-another-rdfa-processor%E2%80%A6/">Yet another RDFa processor…</ulink>  <emphasis>RDFa Cartridge</emphasis> : Virtuoso&#39;s RDFa Cartridge extras RDF data from RDFa sources.
 It comprises a metadata extractor and an RDF Schema / OWL Ontology mapper.
  See Also:   <emphasis>RDFization Middleware</emphasis> : Denotes middleware that generates RDF from non RDF Data Sources such as (X)HTML, Weblogs, Shared Bookmark Collections, Photo Galleries, Calendars, Contact Managers, Feed Subscriptions, Wikis, and other information resource collections.
 The Virtuoso Sponger is an example of an RDF Middleware solution from <ulink url="OpenLink">OpenLink</ulink> Software.
 See Also:   <emphasis>RDFizer</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIMILE">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RDFS</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rdf_schema">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Record / Data Object Referencing by ID</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Redland</emphasis> : Redland is a set of free software &#39;C&#39; libraries that provide support for the Resource Description Framework (RDF), providing modular, object based libraries and APIs for manipulating the RDF graph, triples, URIs and Literals.
 Redland includes several high-level language APIs providing RDF manipulation and storage and requires the Raptor RDF parser and Rasqal RDF syntax and query library for its use.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redland_RDF_Application_Framework">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://librdf.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Relational Database</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://math.hws.edu/vaughn/cpsc/343/2003/history.html">A Short Database History</ulink> <ulink url="http://oakleafblog.blogspot.com/2006/05/free-databases-express-vs-open-source.html">&quot;Free&quot; Databases: Express vs. Open-Source RDBMSs</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.businessweek.com/technology/content/feb2006/tc20060206_918648.htm">Taking On the Database Giants</ulink>  <emphasis>REST</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restful">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.base4.net/Blog.aspx?ID=365">RDF REST and the future of Data</ulink>  <emphasis>RESTful</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restful">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RESTian</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RIA</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Internet_application">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Rich Client</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_client">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RSS</emphasis> : RSS (Really Simple Syndication) is a collection of feed formats used to publish periodic updates to blog, news, and other sites that are updated frequently.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rss">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/rss/rss.html">RSS 2.0 Specification</ulink>  <emphasis>RSS Aggregator</emphasis> : RSS aggregators consist of software that enables users to subscribe to various RSS feeds and read the content.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rss_Aggregator">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>RSS Autodiscovery</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>RSS Content Syndication</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Ruby</emphasis> : An object-oriented programming language influenced by PERL and Smalltalk.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_(programming_language)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Ruby On Rails</emphasis> : An open source framework that enables rapid application development using the Ruby programming language.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_on_rails">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.rubyonrails.org/">Home Page</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Screen Scraping</emphasis> :  Method employed one application to harvest data from another application&#39;s display output.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screen_scraping">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Semantic Data Web</emphasis> :  Synonym for the Linked Data Web.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Semantic Radar</emphasis> : Semantic Radar is a Firefox browser extension.
 Semantic Web pages uses RDF auto-discovery and RDFa metadata detection to identify links to semantic content within Web pages.
 When semantic content is detected an icon appears within the browser to alert the user.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Semantic Web</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_web">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/">W3C Semantic Web Activity</ulink> <ulink url="http://journal.dajobe.org/journal/2003/07/semblogs/">Semantic Weblogs</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Semantic.html">Semantic Web Road map</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2005/Talks/1110-iswc-tbl/#(1)">Putting the Web back in Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2005/Talks/1107-iswc-tbl/#(1)">Semantic Web for Industry</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.stefandecker.org/blog/">Stefan Decker on the Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://ebiquity.umbc.edu/resource/html/id/94/">UMBC Semantic Web Reference Card - v2</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2005/Talks/1214-Trento-IH/#(1)">Tutorial on Semantic Web Technologies (Ivan Herman)</ulink> <ulink url="http://ebiquity.umbc.edu/paper/html/id/304/Search-Engines-for-Semantic-Web-Knowledge">Search Engines for Semantic Web Knowledge</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SemanticWebTools">Semantic Web Development Tools</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2006/Talks/1108-swui-tbl/#(1)">Semantic Web and Web 2.0</ulink> <ulink url="http://semanticweb.org/wiki/Main_Page|semanticweb.org">http://semanticweb.org/wiki/Main_Page|semanticweb.org</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2007/Talks/0223-Bangalore-IH/Slides.html#(5)">State of the Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.technologyreview.com/video/semantic">Tim Berners-Lee on the Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/semantic_web_difficulties_with_classic_approach.php">Semantic Web: Difficulties with the Classic Approach</ulink> <ulink url="http://dannyayers.com/2007/09/19/confused-about-the">Confused about the Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/semantic_web_11_things_to_know.php">11 Things To Know About Semantic Web</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.bitaplanet.com/article.php/3696281">What the Semantic Web Means For Your Business</ulink> <ulink url="http://bnode.org/blog/2008/03/04/semantic-web-aliases">Semantic Web Aliases</ulink> <ulink url="http://novaspivack.typepad.com/nova_spivacks_weblog/2008/05/on-the-differen.html">On the Difference Between &quot;Semantic&quot; and &quot;Semantic Web&quot;</ulink> <ulink url="http://blogs.zdnet.com/semantic-web/?p=132">Commercialising the Semantic Web</ulink>   <emphasis>Sensor Data</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Services Orchestration</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Sesame</emphasis> :  A Java-based, Open Source framework for storing, querying, and inferencing RDF data.
 Sesame can be instantiated as an actual Web server or a library.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sesame_(framework)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>Shared Topic</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Shredder</emphasis> : The Shredder is a generic Virtuoso Sponger Cartridge.
 See Also:   <emphasis>SIMILE project</emphasis> :  A project which undertakes to make disparate digital collections such as online library catalogs interoperable by resolving issues that arise from the different catalogs&#39; ontologies, metadata, and so forth.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIMILE">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://simile.mit.edu/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Single-Sign-On</emphasis> :  A security or access control paradigm that allows users to sign into one element in a software system and thereby gain access to ever other element in the software system.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_sign_on">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>SIOC</emphasis> :  Acronym for Semantically-Interlinked Online Communities Project.
 An RDF-based ontology designed to integrate blogs, discussion forums, and mailing lists.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIOC">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://sioc-project.org/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://rdfs.org/sioc/spec/">SIOC Core Ontology Specification</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SIOC/EnabledSites|SIOC/EnabledSites">http://esw.w3.org/topic/SIOC/EnabledSites|SIOC/EnabledSites</ulink> <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/Main/ODSSIOCRef">ODS SIOC Reference</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.johnbreslin.com/blog/2007/03/01/linking-personal-posted-content-across-communities/#comments">Linking personal posted content across communities</ulink> <ulink url="http://groups.google.com/group/sioc-dev|SIOC-Dev">http://groups.google.com/group/sioc-dev|SIOC-Dev</ulink>  <emphasis>SIOC-o-sphere</emphasis> :  Online communities that exploit the SIOC ontology to share data.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://captsolo.net/info/blog_a.php/2006/09/29/sioc_o_sphere">Post details: SIOC-o-sphere</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.johnbreslin.com/blog/2006/09/11/latest-developments-in-the-sioc-o-sphere/">Latest developments in the SIOC-o-sphere</ulink>  <emphasis>SKOS</emphasis> :  Acronym for Simple Knowledge Organisation Systems.
 SKOS comprises a grouping of RDF-based languages whose purpose is to represent structured vocabularies such as are used for thesauri, taxonomies, classification systems, and so forth.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SKOS">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/swbp-skos-core-guide">SKOS Simple Knowledge Organization System Primer (2008)</ulink>  <emphasis>SOA</emphasis> :  Acronym for service-oriented architecture.
 Paradigm for systems integration and development that packages and exposes business processes as loosely-coupled interoperable services.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-oriented_architecture">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>SOAP</emphasis> :  Acronym formally expanded to Simple Object Access Protocol.
 Expanded form now deprecated.
 Protocol for exchange of XML-based messages using HTTP/HTTPS.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Object_Access_Protocol">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Social Bookmarking</emphasis> :  Technology that allows Web users to store, manage, tag, and share bookmarks to Web sites.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_bookmarking">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Social Engineering</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_engineering_(security)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Social Networking</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_networking">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.zengestrom.com/blog/2005/04/why_some_social.html">Why some social network services work and others don&#39;t — Or: the case for object-centered sociality</ulink> <ulink url="http://bizcast.typepad.com/clients/2007/11/social-networks.html">Social Networks: New Age Solution to Problems of the Old Economy</ulink>   <emphasis>Social Tagging</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_tagging">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>SPARQL</emphasis> :  OpenLink Virtuoso supports SPARQL embedded into SQL for querying RDF data stored in Virtuoso&#39;s database.
 SPARQL benefits from low-level support in the engine itself, such as SPARQL-aware type-casting rules and a dedicated IRI data type.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparql">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.dajobe.org/2005/04-sparql/">SPARQL RDF Query Language Reference</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/sprot11/">W3C SPARQL Protocol for RDF Using WSDL 1.1</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2005/HPL-2005-170.html">A relational algebra for SPARQL</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2005/HPL-2005-171.html">Note on database layouts for SPARQL datastores</ulink> <ulink url="http://thefigtrees.net/lee/sw/sparql-faq">SPARQL FAQ</ulink> <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SparqlImplementations|SparqlImplementations">http://esw.w3.org/topic/SparqlImplementations|SparqlImplementations</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-XMLres/">SPARQL Query Results XML Format</ulink>  <emphasis>SPARQL Endpoint</emphasis> : SPARQL endpoints are services that enable users to issue SPARQL queries against a data store.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://semanticweb.org/wiki/SPARQL_endpoint">SPARQL endpoint</ulink>  <emphasis>SPARQL Query Service</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>SPARUL</emphasis> : SPARUL (SPARQL/Update) is a language which facilitates the creation and deletion of RDF graphs, insertion and deletion of triples in graphs, and group updates in a single operation.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SPARUL">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>SPASQL</emphasis> : SPASQL is an extension of to the SQL standard.
 It enables execution of SPARQL queries within SQL statements.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://esw.w3.org/topic/SPASQL|SPASQL">http://esw.w3.org/topic/SPASQL|SPASQL</ulink>  <emphasis>Sponger Cartridge</emphasis> : The Virtuoso Sponger uses cartridges to extract data from non-RDF data sources and convert that data into RDF.
 See Also:   <emphasis>SQL Injection</emphasis> : SQL Injections are malicious exploits that employ SQL queries to obtain unauthorized access to data in relational databases or to make harmful updates to that data.
 SQL Injection is often achieved by passing SQL queries in Web forms that prompt for usernames and passwords.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sql_injection">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.sqlsecurity.com/FAQs/SQLInjectionFAQ/tabid/56/Default.aspx">SQL Injection FAQ</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.ibmdatabasemag.com/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=18901175">Six Security Secrets Attackers Don&#39;t Want You to Know</ulink>  <emphasis>SQL to RDF Mapping</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/dataspace/dav/wiki/Main/VOSSQL2RDF">Mapping SQL Data to RDF</ulink>   <emphasis>SQL-XML</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>SQL3</emphasis> : An alias for the SQL:1999 specification.
 This revision of the SQL spec added regular expression matching, recursive queries, triggers, support for procedural and control-of-flow statements, non-scalar types, and some object-oriented features.
 See Also:    <emphasis>SQLX</emphasis> : SQLX or SQL/XML is a standardized syntax for returning data produced from relational databases queries as XML.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.sqlx.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Structured Data</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Structured Data Object Identifier</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Structured Tagging</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Subject</emphasis> : In RDF triples, the subject is the topic of the triple of which various qualities (objects) are attributed.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Subject Matter Concepts</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>SVG</emphasis> : SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) is an XML-based graphc file format that facilitates smooth scaling of images as they are resized to larger or smaller dimensions.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svg">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.xml.com/pub/a/2003/06/04/xslt-svg.html">Visualizing XSLT in SVG</ulink>  <emphasis>SWEO</emphasis> :  SWEO (Semantic Web Education and Outreach) is a W3C interest group.
 It endeavors to promulgate the need for and benefits of Semantic Web technologies amongst the greater Web community.
 It also works to promote the uptake of available solutions and associated technologies.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/blog/SWEO">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>SyncML</emphasis> : Enables data synchronization with Mobile Phones.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syncml">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>Syndicated Web</emphasis> : A characterization of Web 2.0 based on the rise of XML baed content such as RSS, RDF, OPML, OCS, and FOAF.
 See Also: </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Tabular</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Tabulator</emphasis> :  A Linked Data Browser produced byTim Berners-Lee.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2006/Talks/1019-tab-tbl/#(1)">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Tag Cloud</emphasis> :  Tag clouds are weighted, visual maps of the subject matter or topics addressed on a Web site.
 Each tag denotes a topic and its font weight and size indicates the frequency with which that topic is discussed.
 Tags are clickable and take the user to pages that display links specific to that topic.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tag_cloud">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Tag Meaning</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Tags Data Space</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Taxonomy</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxonomy">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Topic Map</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topic_map">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.ontopia.net/topicmaps/materials/tm-vs-thesauri.html">Metadata? Thesauri? Taxonomies? Topic Maps!</ulink> <ulink url="http://xml.coverpages.org/topicMaps.html">
(XML) Topic Maps</ulink>  <emphasis>Trackback</emphasis> : Trackback enables a blog author to programatically notify another blog post or article author whenever the second author&#39;s content is cited by the first.
 Trackback uses HTTP GET or POST to post identifying information pertaining to the citing author&#39;s blog to the article or blog post that is cited.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trackback">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.muhajabah.com/islamicblog/what-is-tb.php">What Is Trackback?</ulink>  <emphasis>TriG</emphasis> : Denotes a plain text format for serialization of RDF Named Graphs.
 See Also:    <emphasis>Triple</emphasis> : An RDF triple consists of one subject, one predicate, and one object.
 RDF triples are analogous to simple sentences such that a predicate is always used to associate an object (quality) with a subject.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Triplestore</emphasis> : Denotes a database designed to store and facilitate the retrieval of RDF metadata.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_Store">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Turtle</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turtle_(syntax)">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.dajobe.org/2004/01/turtle/">Turtle - Terse RDF Triple Language</ulink>  <emphasis>Twine</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://www.twine.com/about">Home Page</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>UBL</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Business_Language">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://xmlhack.com/read.php?item=1967">Bosak on Universal Business Language</ulink>  <emphasis>UDDI</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UDDI">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.uddi.org/pubs/uddi_v3.htm">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>UMBEL</emphasis> : See Also: <ulink url="http://www.umbel.org/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.zitgist.com/products/dataviewer/dataviewer.html">Zitgist Dataviewer</ulink>  <emphasis>Unified Communities</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Unified Storage</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>URI</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URI">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <ulink url="http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3464501">W3C, IETF Stick with &#39;Web Glue&#39; Standards</ulink> <ulink url="http://dig.csail.mit.edu/breadcrumbs/node/71">Give yourself a URI</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI">Cool URIs don&#39;t change</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/cooluris/">Cool URIs for the Semantic Web</ulink>  <emphasis>User Agent</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_agent">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>User Generated Data</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User-generated_content">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<emphasis>Viewer (V)</emphasis> :  Represents user interaction in the MVC model.
 Used as a metaphor for Web 1.0 due to the focus on static, HTML documents aimed at human consumption.
 See Also:  
<para><emphasis>Virtual Databasing</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_database">Wikipedia Article</ulink> </para><para><emphasis>Virtual Domain</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtual Forum</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtualization</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtualization">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://patrickweb.com/weblog/categories/ebusiness/ve.php">Virtually Real and Really Virtual</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.networkworld.com/columnists/2004/111504backspin.html">Betting on virtualization</ulink> </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso AMI</emphasis> : A pre-installed edition of Virtuoso for Amazon&#39;s EC2 Cloud platform.
 See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso Meta Schema Language for Declaratively generating RDF Views of SQL Data</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso Meta Schema Language for RDF Views of SQL Data</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Virtuoso Metaschema Language for producing RDF Views over ODBC/JDBC accessible Data Sources</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso RDBMS to RDF Mapping</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso Sponger</emphasis> : The Virtuoso Sponger is a middleware component of Virtuoso analogous to an ODBC Driver Manager.
 The Sponger generates RDF Linked Data from a variety of data sources.
 The sponger is transparently integrated into Virtuoso&#39;s SPARQL Query Processor, where it delivers URI de-referencing functionality and data caching services.
 Optionally, it can be used by the Virtuoso Content Crawler to periodically build and replenish local RDF graphs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://fgiasson.com/blog/index.php/2007/03/28/making-the-bridge-between-the-web-and-the-semantic-web/#comments">Making the bridge between the Web and the Semantic Web</ulink>  <emphasis>Virtuoso SQL Schema to RDF Ontology Mapping Language (1.0)</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>Virtuoso SQL-RDF</emphasis> :  See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>VOS</emphasis> :  An acronym for Virtuoso Open-Source Edition.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/wiki/main/">Home Page</ulink> </para><para><emphasis>VSP</emphasis> :  An acroynym for &quot;Virtuoso Scripting Pages,&quot; Virtuoso Universal Server&#39;s native scripting language.
 See Also:  </para><para><emphasis>VSPX</emphasis> :  VSPX is Virtuoso Universal Server&#39;s native ASP like scripting language.
 See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>Walled Garden</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walled_garden_(media)">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Web 1.0</emphasis> :   Web 1.0 characterizes the beginnings of the Web as a collection of linked, static documents.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_1.0">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Web 2.0</emphasis> : An evolution in the World Wide Web away from a Web of linked, static HTML-based documents towards an executable Web  of Web Services and a Syndicated Web of XML content.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_2.0">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/web_20_meme_map.php">Web 2.0 Meme Map</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html?page=1">What Is Web 2.0</ulink> <ulink url="http://novaspivack.typepad.com/nova_spivacks_weblog/2006/11/web_me20_explod.html">Web &quot;Me2.0&quot; -- Exploding the Myth of Web 2.0</ulink>  <emphasis>Web 3.0</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_3.0">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/web_30_when_web_sites_become_web_services.php">Web 3.0: When Web Sites Become Web Services</ulink>  <emphasis>Web 4.0</emphasis> : Touted to be the next incarnation of the World Wide Web as characterized by a Web that is traversible by digital agents representing users.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Web Data Silo</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_silo">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Web Data Space</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Web of Agents</emphasis> : A moniker for the upcoming Web 4.0 which expresses the vision of that Web as traversible by digital agents representing users See Also:   <emphasis>Web of Databases and Programs</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://www.infoworld.com/article/06/05/03/77873_19OPstrategic_1.html">Accessing the web of databases</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/2005/Talks/0623-sb-IEEEStorConf/#(1)">Toward a Web of Data and Programs</ulink>  <emphasis>Web of Documents</emphasis> :  This term characterizes the beginnings of the Web as a collection of linked, static documents.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Web Open Database Connectivity</emphasis> : Analogous to ODBC API, Web Open Database Connectivity (WODBC) provides open data access to Web Databases or Data Spaces using HTTP-based URIs in place of Data Source Names.
 See Also:   <emphasis>Web Service</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_service">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.businessweek.com/technology/content/feb2005/tc2005028_8000_tc203.htm">So, What the Heck Are Web Services?</ulink>  <emphasis>Web Service API</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>WebDAV</emphasis> :  Our WebDAV is a filesystem in the database.
 This means you can set ACLs/permissions on various parts of the filesystem, and yet browse it via HTTP in an ordinary browser, or mount it using the Finder on the Mac ors davfs2 on Linux, whatever takes your fancy.
 WebDAV itself uses HTTP GET and PUT and similar commands.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webdav">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.webdav.org/">Welcome to WebDAV Resources</ulink>  <emphasis>Whidbey</emphasis> : Code name for Visual Studio .NET 2005 during its devlopment phase.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2003/Jul03/07-29InnovationListPR.mspx">Microsoft Outlines Vision for Future of Visual Studio .NET And Microsoft .NET Framework
</ulink>  <emphasis>Wiki</emphasis> : Software that allows groups to share in the creation and editing of web pages via a Web browser.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,4149,1071705,00.asp?kc=PCRSS02129TX1K0000530">What&#39;s a Wiki</ulink> <ulink url="http://news.cnet.com/1200-2-5741150.html">Wiki while you work</ulink> <ulink url="http://news.cnet.com/1200-2-5741153.html">Getting &#39;wiki&#39; with the team</ulink> <ulink url="http://news.cnet.com/1200-2-5741156.html">Is business waking up to wiki?</ulink> <ulink url="http://wiki.navigable.info/">Semantic Authoring and Retrieval within a Wiki</ulink>  <emphasis>Wikipedia</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Wine</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://www.winehq.org/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>WinFS</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>Wire Protocol</emphasis> : Data access products are said to be &quot;wire protocol&quot; products when the possess the ability to speak to a target DBMS using that DBMS&#39;s native communications protocol.
 See Also:   <emphasis>WODBC</emphasis> : Analogous to ODBC API, Web Open Database Connectivity (WODBC) provides open data access to Web Databases or Data Spaces using HTTP-based URIs in place of Data Source Names.
 See Also:   <emphasis>WODBC DSN</emphasis> : A WODBC DSN is a URI that provides HTTP-based data access to Web Databases and Data Spaces in a manner analogous to ODBC data access to traditional relational databases.
 See Also:  </para><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> 
<para><emphasis>XBRL</emphasis> :  An acronym for eXtensible Business Reporting Language.
 It is an open standard for semantic modeling business and financial data for reporting purposes.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XBRL">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.xbrl.org/Home/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://groups.google.com/group/xbrl-ontology-specification-group">XBRL Ontology Specification Group</ulink>  <emphasis>XFN</emphasis> : XFN is a microformat standard for representing social networks.
 Microformats can be inserted  into any xHTML webpage.
 Therefore XFN makes it possible for any blog, social network page or general webpage to &quot;contain&quot; your social network and expose it for use by any compatible tool, service or application.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XHTML_Friends_Network">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://gmpg.org/xfn/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>XHR</emphasis> : Abbreviated form of XMLHttpRequest.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xmlhttprequest">Wikipedia Article</ulink>   <emphasis>XHTML</emphasis> : XHTML (Extensible Hypertext Markup Language) employs a highly restrictive subset of SGML for the purpose of providing a markup language that conforms to XML syntax yet provides the same degree of expression as HTML.
 This aids in automatic processing of XHTML documents by XML applications whereas pure HTML documents would require specialized parsers that allowed for less than well-formed XML.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xhtml">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>Ximian</emphasis> : Ximian was an independent company that produced a variety of GNOME-based, desktop software for Linux and Unix.
 Ximian is notable for its Mono project, which comprises production of .NET-compatible development tools also for Linux and Unix.
 Ximian is now a part of Novell.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ximian">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.novell.com/linux/ximian.html">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>XML</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://xml.coverpages.org/xmlAndDatabases.html">XML and Databases</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-matters34.html">XML Matters:  GUIs and XML configuration data</ulink>  <emphasis>XML Parser</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml_parser">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XML Schema</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml_schema">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XML-RPC</emphasis> :  See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml-rpc">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XML/SOAP</emphasis> :  See Also:   <emphasis>XMLA</emphasis> : XMLA (XML for Analysis) is a standardized API that enables client applications to query OLAP data sources.
 XMLA uses HTTP, SOAP, and XML to effect communication with the data stoe.
 It uses the MDX query language to actually query the target data store.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XMLA">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XMLHttpRequest</emphasis> : Object that makes it possible for JavaScript-based Ajax applications to perform GET, POST, and other HTTP requests within the Web browser itself.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xmlhttprequest">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XPath</emphasis> : XPath (XML Path Language) is a query language used for selecting nodes from XML documents and for performing computations using values in XML documents.
 XPath was defined by the W3C See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xpath">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath">XML Path Language (XPath)</ulink>  <emphasis>XQuery</emphasis> : XQuery is a query language for XML files or other collections of XML data.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xquery">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/xquery/">XQuery 1.0: An XML Query Language</ulink>  <emphasis>XSL</emphasis> :  XSL (Extensible Stylesheet Language) is the language used to create XSLT stylesheets.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xsl">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XSLT</emphasis> : XSLT (XSL Transformation) is a language that facilitates transformation of an XML document into a different XML document, HTML, or plain text.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xslt">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XSLT Processor</emphasis> :  XSLT processors take xml documents and xslt stylesheets as inputs and use instructions in the stylesheets to output the original xml document in XML, HTML, or text.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xslt">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XSLT Stylesheet</emphasis> : XSLT stylesheets consist of instructions and other directives that control how XSLT processors produce an output document.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xslt">Wikipedia Article</ulink>  <emphasis>XUL</emphasis> :  An XML-based markup language.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xul">Wikipedia Article</ulink> <ulink url="http://www.mozilla.org/projects/xul/">Home Page</ulink> <ulink url="http://xml.coverpages.org/xul.html">Extensible User Interface Language (XUL)</ulink> <bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2" /> <para /> </para>
<para><emphasis>Zitgist Data Viewer</emphasis> :  A product designed to expose Linked Data and the underlying data model associated with that data.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.zitgist.com/products/dataviewer/dataviewer.html">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>Zitgist LLC</emphasis> :  A Linked Data Web products and services provider.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.zitgist.com/">Home Page</ulink>  <emphasis>zLinks</emphasis> :  Browser extension or plug-in that exposes embedded links in blogs.
 See Also: <ulink url="http://www.zitgist.com/products/dataviewer/dataviewer.html">Home Page</ulink>  </para></section></docbook>