<docbook><section><title>WinJDBCtoVirt</title><bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h2">Connect to Virtuoso (ODBC, JDBC, OLE DB, .NET)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h3">JDBC Data Access Providers (Windows Client)</bridgehead>
<bridgehead class="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml:h4">Configure &amp; Test Virtuoso JDBC Connection URLS</bridgehead>
<para>1.
 Expand the Start menu.</para><para>2.
 Expand the All Programs menu.</para><para>3.
 Expand the OpenLink Virtuoso folder.</para><para>4.
 Expand the Client Samples folder.</para><para>4.
 Expand the JDBC folder.</para><para>5.
 Expand the sub-folder that pertains to the local JDK version.</para><para>6.
 Launch the JDBDemo application.</para><para>7.
 Expand the File menu.</para><para>8.
 Select Full Connect.</para><para>9.
 Type the following into the Driver Name field: virtuoso.jdbc3.Driver</para><para>10.
 Type your connection URL into the Connection URL field.
 Here is the abbreviated syntax:</para><programlisting>jdbc:virtuoso://&lt;Hostname&gt;:&lt;Port#&gt;/DATABASE=&lt;dbname&gt;/UID=&lt;user name&gt;/PWD=&lt;password&gt;/
</programlisting><para> For example:</para><programlisting>jdbc:virtuoso://192.168.12.235:1111/DATABASE=DB/UID=dba/PWD=dba/
</programlisting><para>11.
 Click OK.</para><para>12.
 Type a query into the query text box.</para><para>13.
 Click the Query button.</para><para>13.
 Click OK.</para><para>14.
 View your result set.</para><para>15.
 Expand the File menu.</para><para>16.
 Select Close Connection.</para><para>17.
 Expand the File menu.</para><para>18.
 Select Exit.</para><para>19.
 Proceed to use the above JDBC connection URL in your JDBC applications.</para><para>NOTE: See the following documentation for full <ulink url="http://docs.openlinksw.com/virtuoso/VirtuosoDriverJDBC.html#jdbcurl4mat">JDBC Connection URL syntax</ulink>.</para></section></docbook>